---
tags:
  - Balky
  - Horror
  - Other
---
# Cursebreakers
 

|   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Name|HP|Heal|CE|Sp|Might|San|Know|Luck|Mad|Exh|Cursed Technique|
|GROUP 1 TOTAL DICE: 20|   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
|John Doe - Thierry                    <br><br>  <br><br>じょんどー＠hotmail.com|28/35|0|12/12|2/2|2/2|1/1|2/2|0|13/13|4/4|Cursed Energy Manipulation: Able to unleash cursed energy with attacks and reinforce the body with cursed energy.<br><br>  <br><br>Whiplash from using excessive energy at once|
|Max Miller -  Ashie<br><br>  <br><br>pumptheironredbull!!!!!!ᕙ(⇀‸↼‶)ᕗ@hotmail.com|22/28|0|11/15|3/3|0/0|1/1|1/1|0/0|12/16|3/3|Telekinesis  <br>Create kinetic energy like light, heat and gravity. <br><br>This can be used in a multitude ways such as manipulating objects, creating a light source or levitating.<br><br>Weakness<br><br>Max dislikes the fact he is a sorcerer and only uses his power when necessary, he sees his cursed energy as nuisance rather than gift.<br><br>This mental barrier breaks down as Max becomes more and more frustrated until the point where the barrier is broken, usually caused by a mental breakdown or panic attack.|
|Jim - Niki<br><br>  <br><br>jimiscool@hotmail.com|21/39|2/2|2/8|0|1/1|4/4|1/1|1/4|10/10|1/1|Ability to possess an entity. <br><br>  <br><br>Weakness: If the power is overused or used when energy is low, I will be vulnerable to possession from the entity.|
|Name - Tauhu<br><br>gachagal@hotmail.com|36/36||||||||||Money-powered powers<br><br>Weakness: Literally has to pay to use the powers.|
|GROUP 2 TOTAL DICE: 20|   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
|Name|HP|Heal|CE|Sp|Might|San|Know|Luck|Mad|Exh|Cursed Technique|
|Kai Sasaki -Tauhu<br><br>  <br><br>heartbreaker79@hotmail.com|31/34|0/0|10/10|3/3|1/1|2/2|3/3|1/1|11/11|4/4|Lock and Key  <br>  <br>The ability to ‘lock’ and ‘unlock’ things. This includes literal locks, other people’s abilities, joints, and such. To do this, a physical key is required to channel the energy.<br><br>  <br><br>Weakness: A physical key is required for both abilities. If an opponent spends more curse energy than he does while locking something, it will be unlocked.|
|Robert - Harvest<br><br>  <br><br>hentaifan69@hotmail.com|28/38|0/0|0/8|2/3|2/2|2/2|1/1|4/4|9/9|5/5|YOINK!<br><br>  <br><br>Can take anything from anyone (equipment, food, objects) from a long distance, as long as Robert himself can carry said object (so no objects that are too large or too heavy).<br><br>  <br><br>Weakness: Objects taken are not necessarily done by stealth; the owner of said object will realise when their object is taken. Robert can only take material objects. Robert cannot take an object that he is unable to carry at the time, even if he can carry the object at any other times (e.g. inventory, hands, and pockets are all full, so cannot take an apple)|
|Sollux Yang - Crys<br><br>  <br><br>twiinArmageddons@[censor]mail.com|32/34|0/0|10/10|2/2|0/1|1/1|3/4|0/0|11/11|3/3|PSIONICS<br><br>  <br><br>Sollux has electricity-based telekinetic powers, known as psionics. It can be used to power things, and do other electric activities such as [CENSORED] and execution via electrocution. Fun for the whole family!<br><br>  <br><br>By virtue of being a telekinetic power, he can also use it to lift stuff and throw it around or whatever it is kids with telekinesis do. This ability works best when lifting metallic items, as the whole telekinesis shebang primarily works via magnetic forces in the electric currents.<br><br>  <br><br>When used, his powers also disrupt electronics due to the magnet. This is not something he can control, at least not directly—the strength and radius of the magnetic field depends on how much of his power he’s using. For example, if he were doing something minor like charging his phone, electronics would not malfunction unless he were holding it in his hands; conversely, if he were trying to–oh, I don’t know–throw an entire mall at a guy, the field may be as large as, even larger than a sphere of 1km radius.<br><br>  <br><br>(Fucking magnets, how do they work?!)|
|BIBI KAL (갈 비비) -Ellis-<br><br>antifragilebibi@hotmail.com|18/35|0/0|5/8|3/3|2/2|2/2|0/1|2/4|7/7|5/5|BLOODY MARY<br><br>  <br><br>The ability to create makeshift weapons (mainly whip) from one's own blood usually by biting one's finger and conjuring said weapon from the drip that follows. If one creates a whip, said whip will be able to deal a ranged damage that destroys everything in its path, even concrete. <br><br>  <br><br>Limitation : Inability to hold out in long-winded battles due to blood loss.|
|Temmie - ashie|26/26|0/0|14/17|0/1|0/0|2/2|0/0|0/0|0/17|2/2|HAEMATOMANCY<br><br>  <br><br>The ability to manipulate and alter the qualities of blood. This can be used in a multitude of ways such as shape shifting, controlling others or stealing blood.<br><br>  <br><br>Limitation: using Hematomancy to do anything other than leech blood from others will deal damage to tammi as they use their own reserves to cast.|
|Mei Misaki  <br>Myon Myon (UwU)<br><br>  <br>  <br><br>doublecorehelix@hotmail.com|41/44|0/0|3/5|5/6|3/6|0/0|2/7|0/0|5/5|10/10|ENHANCEMENT!<br><br>  <br><br>Increases power when going against higher threats.  <br>  <br>Limitations: Has to understand the level of threat they were going up against. Or get hurt first before being able to utilise their curse energy|
|Ponge Le’Bob<br><br>  <br><br>Pongelebob213@hotmail.com|37/41|1/1|1/1|2/6|0/11|1/1|0/0|0/0|2/2|17/17|Pump Covers<br><br>  <br><br>Ponge strips of his pump covers and powers up. Whenever he gets in a  weightlifting pose he can double in maximum strength.|

  

## Notes

Thierry Day 1 + Knowledge

  

(campaign 9 group 2)

Add 2 dice to the skill pool

  
  
  

# Za Rules

The origin of curses and sorcerors is largely unknown. However, it can be surmised that because cursed energy comes from negative emotion, curses have always existed alongside humanity. 

  

In the modern-day, the number of unexplained deaths and disappearances in Japan exceeds ten thousand annually. These statistics are a direct result of the influence curses have on normal society. Their existence has been kept secret from non-sorcerers, as they are invisible to them. Sorcerers act in secret to repel the threat of curses.

  

Curses are created when cursed energy leaks from humans as a result of their human emotion. Cursed energy builds up like sediment until a cursed spirit takes form. Populated locations such as schools and hospitals are hot spots for bearing curses because many negative emotions are associated with memories of those places. This same concept applies humanity's collective fear and hatred. An image of fear shared by the masses can create a powerful curse even if the subject is not real, such as famous monsters or ghosts. It is the negative emotions that humanity directed at this image that causes it to manifest as a curse.

  

Longstanding negative feelings such as humanity's relationship with plagues and natural disasters results in a collection of cursed energy so massive the cursed spirits manifested from them have a consciousness related to those feelings. For example, humanity's fear and treatment of forests has directly resulted in Hanami, a very intelligent special grade cursed spirit who wants to free the earth of its humans in order to protect the forests and trees from them.

  

Cursed spirits bodies are entirely made up of cursed energy. Their metaphysical existence makes it impossible for non-sorcerers to perceive or touch them. Living humans who have been cursed can only tell they have strange symptoms without realising a cursed spirit behind it. Non-sorcerers whose lives are put in danger by a curse may gain the ability to see it in that life or death situation.

  

Curses come in all kinds of grotesque shapes and sizes. They tend to linger around their point of origin and instinctively curse humans. Other than that, a curse's habits vary a great deal from spirit to spirit. Curses are most stable while possessing an item, and some curses can possess inanimate objects to become cursed corpses.

  

### Rolling Dice

Your characters are all skilled and capable sorcerers. They have more physical and magical abilities than any normal human being. 

  

Their capabilities ensure that they do not need to roll dice to achieve goals. They can simply describe what they do. 

I.e. “My character jumps over the 20 feet tall wall with ease.” 

  

If the Game Master determines that any action being undertaken is sufficiently difficult or impossible, they may declare the action as impossible, or require a roll in order for the action to be undertaken.

  
  

Challenge Dice

When presenting a player character with an obstacle or challenge, the GM can ask the player to roll dice from the relevant dice pool. 

The GM can either present a number of successes for the player to roll in order to succeed at the action, or roll opposing “Challenge Dice”. 

The number of successes needed or the number of dice rolled should correlate to the difficulty of the dice.

I.e. Dodging an oncoming car should only require one success, while exorcising a powerful demon may require 5 successes. 

In the case of a tie, the Players always win (unless they used any exhaustion dice).

  

## Dice Pool

Each player will start with 16 dice to be divided between the 7 stats. The dice pool will be added as the sessions go.

### Character Stats

  

Cursed Energy: Cursed Energy represents a character's exposure to dark and malevolent forces. It is a measure of how much negative energy a character has accumulated, and how much they are susceptible to the effects of curses and other dark magic.

They have access to powerful dark magic spells and abilities that can inflict devastating damage on their enemies.

Cursed Energy dice are rolled to activate the characters powers.

  

Hit Points: Hit Points represent a character's physical well-being. It is a measure of how much damage a character can take before succumbing to injuries and death.

Characters with higher Hit Points are more resistant to physical damage and can withstand more punishment before being defeated. 

Hit Point dice may be rolled to heal at any point during the game.

  

Speed: Speed represents a character's agility, dexterity, and overall swiftness. It is a measure of how quickly a character can move and react in various situations, both in and out of combat.

Characters with a high "Speed" stat are capable of moving quickly across the game world, dodging attacks, and evading danger. They are also more likely to act before their opponents, allowing them to strike first and gain the upper hand in combat. 

Speed dice can be rolled to perform acrobatics and parkour.

  

Might: Might represents a character's physical strength, power, and raw force. It is a measure of their ability to exert force and overcome resistance, both in combat and in other physical challenges. Might can also affect a character's ability to intimidate and influence others with their sheer physical presence. Might is essential for characters who rely on brute force and physical dominance.

Might dice can be rolled for physical attacks and defence.

  

Sanity: Sanity represents a character's mental well-being and stability. It is a measure of how resilient a character is to the horrors and stresses of the world.

Characters with a high Sanity are more likely to stay composed and are also less susceptible to intimidation and less likely to be influenced against their will.

Characters with high sanity are more persuasive in conversations, and an easier time using abilities that require a clear and focused mind.

Sanity dice are rolled to resist attacks from curses and the effects of terrifying or disturbing effects.

  

Knowledge: Knowledge represents a character's accumulated learning and understanding. It is a measure of how well-educated a character is in the world's lore, history, and events.

Characters with a high Knowledge stat are more likely to find hidden secrets, solve puzzles or overcome mental challenges. 

In social encounters, a high Knowledge is essential for characters who seek to understand other creatures and uncover any secrets that they may be hiding.

Knowledge dice are rolled to identify and analyse clues and artefacts, recall information or solve mental problems.

  

Luck: Luck is a stat that represents a character's fortune and chance. 

Luck dice can be rolled and added to the outcome of other rolls made throughout the game.

  
  

Special Stats

  

Madness: Madness represents a character's descent into insanity. It is a measure of how much exposure a character has had to disturbing or traumatic events, as well as how well they can cope with the horrors they have witnessed.

The base madness pool is always equal to your cursed energy + sanity dice pools.

Madness dice can be rolled in addition to or in place of your cursed energy dice rolls.

Everytime you run out of madness dice during an adventure, you add one dice to your madness pool permanently.

If your madness pool is ever double the size of your cursed energy and sanity dice pools added together, your character goes insane and is permanently removed from the game.

You recover (Not gain) one madness dice at the start of every adventure.

  

Exhaustion: Exhaustion represents a character's physical fatigue. It is a measure of how much energy a character has expended and how much rest they require to recover. Exhaustion dice can be rolled in addition to or in place of your speed and might dice rolls.

  

Your base exhaustion pool is always equal to your speed + might dice pools.

Everytime you run out of exhaustion dice, you remove one die from your exhaustion pool permanently.

If your exhaustion pool ever reaches 0 during an adventure, your character dies from exhaustion and is permanently removed from the game.

You recover (Not gain) one exhaustion dice at the start of every adventure.

  

### Cursed Techniques

Innate Techniques are intrinsic supernatural powers congenitally engraved into a sorcerer when they are born. They generally manifest around the age of five or six and are completely unique to the respective user. 

  

These techniques allow the user to manipulate cursed energy to create magical effects.

  

Example powers:

  

- Teleportation: This ability activates when the user claps their hands together. The technique switches the positions of the user and anything they desire. The user can also switch things or people not including themselves (i.e. The user can swap their partner with their adversary's position).
    
- Séance Technique: This technique can summon the body or soul information from a deceased person using their corpse, allowing the user to shape-shift herself or a willing participant into that person.
    
- Manipulating cursed plants: This technique allows the user to manifest the illusions of cursed plants into reality. Any plant or wood attack can be erased from reality just as quickly as it's manifested. Different plants have different effects.
    
- Cursed Speech: This technique infuses spoken words with cursed energy to increase the spirit of the words, forcibly compelling anyone who hears to follow his commands. The bigger the command, the larger the backlash on the user's vocal chords.
    

  

You are free to create your own techniques. The technique should have the following:

- Core concept. A strong concept that defines what your power does or is capable of.
    
- A strength. A specific thing that your ability excels at.
    
- Weakness. Something that counteracts your ability directly or a payoff for using the technique. 
    

### Cursed Spirits

Cursed Spirits, also referred to simply as Curses are a race of spiritual beings manifested from cursed energy as a result of the negative emotions that flow out of humans. They bring harm to humanity and are consequently the primary targets of sorcerers.

Cursed Spirits can take on various forms, from ghosts and spectres to demonic creatures or undead monstrosities. They are typically immune to conventional attacks and can only be damaged by cursed energy weapons or magic.

### Cursed Objects

A Cursed Object is a curse that exists as an object rather than a fully formed cursed spirit.

  

Unlike cursed tools, cursed objects are not items imbued with cursed energy, but actual curses bound to the form of an artefact. These relics are often leftover from the past eras of the sorcerer world or are the remains of powerful curses and sorcerers. This also includes paper talisman and other sealing methods called Constraints that contain curses as a means to seal other cursed objects.

  

Cursed objects can leave residual cursed energy just like normal cursed spirits. 

Among other artefacts are items that can erect barriers such as Commissioned Curtains or Prison Realm. The former is a common item used by curse users that appears to be wrapped in constraints, allowing the user to program special conditions into a curtain before it is activated.  

  

### Cursed Items

Cursed Items are weapons and support items used by sorcerers that are purposefully imbued with a curse.

Different from cursed objects, cursed tools are weapons infused with cursed energy. Due to this, even non-sorcerers can use them to combat cursed spirits. Conventional weapons such as katanas can become semi cursed tools over time if the user constantly imbues it with their cursed energy. However, weapons new to the user that are reinforced with cursed energy are not considered cursed tools.