<table><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><h1 id="mordenkainens-private-sanctum"><strong>Mordenkainen’s Private Sanctum</strong></h1><p><em>4th-level abjuration</em></p><ul><li><blockquote><p><strong>Casting Time:</strong> 10 minutes</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p><strong>Range</strong>: 120 feet</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p><strong>Components</strong>: V, S, M <em>(a thin sheet of lead, a piece of opaque glass, a wad of cotton or cloth, and powdered chrysolite)</em></p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p><strong>Duration</strong>: 24 hours</p></blockquote></li></ul><p> </p><p>You make an area within range magically secure. The area is a cube that can be as small as 5 feet to as large as 100 feet on each side. The spell lasts for the duration or until you use an action to dismiss it.</p><p> </p><p>When you cast the spell, you decide what sort of security the spell provides, choosing any or all of the following properties:</p><p> </p><ul><li><blockquote><p>Sound can't pass through the barrier at the edge of the warded area.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>The barrier of the warded area appears dark and foggy, preventing vision (including dark-vision) through it.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>Sensors created by divination spells can’t appear inside the protected area or pass through the barrier at its perimeter.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>Creatures in the area can’t be targeted by divination spells.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>Nothing can teleport into or out of the warded area.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>Planar travel is blocked within the warded area.</p></blockquote></li></ul><p> </p><p>Casting this spell on the same spot every day for a year makes this effect permanent.</p><p> </p><p> </p><p> </p><p><strong>At Higher Levels.</strong> When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can increase the size of the cube by 100 feet for each slot level beyond 4th. Thus you could protect a cube that can be up to 200 feet on one side by using a spell slot of 5th level.</p><p> </p></td></tr></tbody></table>