For decades, the Rats have fought tirelessly to repel the incessant frog invasions. Peace was only ever short lived. Until finally a young monarch rose to power. King Rattus, first of his name, unified the red kingdoms under one rule. He repelled the tyrant Greenwart and his kind back to the putrid swamps from whence they came. Crops prospered, families flourished and the Crimson Keep climbed ever higher towards the sky. But as time passed, King Rattus the Saviour grew old, and the kingdom vulnerable once more. His people grow anxious and some claim to perceive a faint odour in the air. Greenwart will return, they say, with a ferocious vengeance. At the head of unfathomable monstrosities, intent on razing the kingdom to the ground. And now, King Rattus gazes down at his withered claws, barely able to hold the crown. He had little hope at wielding a sword. So it was decided the crown should pass to whiskers new. And so your tail begins. THE EYRIE DYNASTIES The Eyrie Dynasties have enjoyed a long rule at the head of the Woodland Realm. From their Roosts in the canopies, the bird kings and viziers lorded over the other denizens by decree, privileging their fellow birds with greater political powers. That is, until they tore themselves apart by civil war. The power vacuum this left was soon filled by the invading Marquise de Cat, who conquered the Woodland while the Eyrie were busy bickering among themselves. Now the Eyrie has finally regrouped under a common leader once more to strike back at the Marquise and reclaim from her their ancestral birthright. The Dynasties maintain their political cohesion through a web of political promises and alliances among the viziers in the roosts. Should these promises be broken, however, the loyalty of the bureaucracy will be shaken such that the entire system comes crashing down. THE MARQUISE DE CAT While the Woodland was divided by the Eyrie Civil War, a Marquise from the advanced Cat Empire led an army from the cities of her homeland to conquer new territory. She seized the Woodland by force, enticement, and any other necessary means. Now, in order to advance her position in the Empire, she seeks to industrialize the Woodland and extract it's abundant resources. The first clearing the Marquise conquered is now home to the Keep, from which she rules her new dominion. Her recruiters promise order and safety to the Woodland, and many flock to her for protection. Hawks for Hire seems to imply that parts of the bird bureaucracy remain under the Marquise, who sparingly uses their experience in managing the Woodland to increase her own efficiency. Or perhaps the Hawks for Hire are simply bird mercenaries. It is unclear. The crown on the coin item bears a resemblance to the Marquise's faction symbol - did the Marquise establish the current currency in the Woodland, or is this just coincidence? THE WOODLAND ALLIANCE The denizens were oppressed under the Eyrie. Then they were oppressed under the Marquisate. Now they've been dragged into a war between both of these factions to decide who gets to continue to oppress them. Some of the denizens have decided they've had enough of rulers, and wish to establish free independent clearings ruled by the denizens for the denizens. They call themselves the Woodland Alliance. Alliance protestors speak out against the armies marching through their homes, bringing war and oppression. The violent repression carried out against Alliance supporters and sympathisers only proves their point, emboldening others to join the cause. Once the Alliance grows strong enough, they can revolt against their oppressors and establish more permanent bases with militias run by officers from among the denizens. These bases give hope to denizens who might otherwise have seen the cause of Woodland independence as an impossible goal, serving as examples of what a Woodland state might look like and causing new supporters to flock to the rebellion. However, when these bases are destroyed, despair and fear set in, causing many to abandon the once more hopeless cause. THE RIVERFOLK COMPANY The Riverfolk are an otter merchant and mercenary company from the Great Lake that shares a border with the Woodland. Their officers travel far and wide on their rafts, growing rich off the funds foreigners pay for their goods and services. When they heard news of the war in the Woodland, the Riverfolk Company sent it's officers to set up shop. War presents many opportunities for an organisation like theirs. They profit by selling mercenaries, goods, boats, and other services to all of the competing factions. They are then able to establish trading posts, entrenching their commercial interests until they economically dominate the Woodland into submission. Balky — 01/04/2023 00:25 THE LIZARD CULT The Lizard Cult offers answers to the lost denizens who have been used and cast out by the factions in the war. Their god, the Great Dragon, offers salvation to a starved and desperate people. Spreading by word of mouth, the Cult grows all throughout the Woodland. Their pilgrims rush to the holy gardens established by the Cult as sacred places of worship dedicated to the Dragon God. The other factions grow wary of the Cult and their seemingly harmless gardens, as the religion is slowly but surely undermining their ideological rule. It is said that in clearings where the holy gardens are maintained, the Cult is the true power. In fact, the more rituals they are allowed to complete, the more total their religious hegemony seems to become. But when the ruling factions respond to the Cult's messages of peace and love with violence, they only make them martyrs. Then those same denizens that were cast out by the blasphemous factions become converted and radicalised and strike back through crusades and holy sanctification. The Lizard Cult are said to preach a hatred of birds. This is because the Cult existed before the Eyrie Civil War, but their gardens were viewed as a threat by the Dynasties and so they were destroyed and banned, the religion outlawed. THE CORVID CONSPIRACY Not much is known about the secretive Corvid Conspiracy. Just when the Eyrie was about to deliver a crippling blow to the Marquise, the Conspiracy emerged to sabotage the Eyrie victory only to retreat back into the shadows. Since then they have held the Woodland hostage, manipulating the events of the war through espionage and terrorism. The agents of the Conspiracy hatch sinister plots to fund their criminal operations so that they can strong arm the powers of the Woodland into submission. Many spies that are sent to unravel the intricate shadow networks of the elusive Corvids get lost chasing false leads until they end up in the clutches of the Corvids themselves. THE MOLSHEVIK REPUBLIC The Molshevik Republic's government is managed by a large system of bureaucratic ministers dedicated to furthering the interests of their state in various areas of governance. The Republic has long regarded the surface dwellers with suspicion. The moles believed they had enough wealth to satiate their ambitions indefinitely. But the stores are dwindling, and there are those of the Republic who look to the Woodland on the surface for expansion. The first military expeditions to the surface were looked upon as foolhardy endeavours. But as victories on the surface are won, and frontier outposts begin to prove profitable, more ministers are swayed to support the cause. These new ministers redirect the Republic's vast resources toward the expedition, believing that the Woodland colony might be just what the Republic needs to resurrect their dying economy. But should the war turn sour, should the Republic lose its mighty outposts to Woodland savages, the ministers may lose faith and begin to look elsewhere for the solution to their crisis. The Republic's government is quite decentralised, as seen by the relative independence with which it's ministers may act. For the most part, the Republic's ruler is heavily dependent on the approval and support of their ministers when carrying out any project, even one as significant as the invasion of the surface.