# **Bonus Actions:**

<table><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><p>Various class features, spells, and other abilities let you take an additional action on your turn called a bonus action. The Cunning Action feature, for example, allows a rogue to take a bonus action. You can take a bonus action only when a special ability, spell, or other feature of the game states that you can do something as a bonus action.</p><p> </p><p>You otherwise don’t have a bonus action to take.</p><p> </p><p><strong>You can take only one bonus action on your turn</strong>, so you must choose which bonus action to use when you have more than one available.</p><p> </p><p>You choose when to take a bonus action during your turn, unless the bonus action’s timing is specified, and anything that deprives you of your ability to take actions also prevents you from taking a bonus action.</p><p> </p></td></tr></tbody></table>

Can a bonus action be used as an action or vice versa? For example, can a bard use a bonus action to grant a Bardic Inspiration die and an action to cast healing word? 
No. Actions and bonus actions aren’t interchangeable. In the example, the bard could use Bardic Inspiration or healing word on a turn, not both.

Can you use the Ready action to take the Dash action on someone else’s turn and then combine the Charger feat with it?
No, since you can’t take a bonus action on someone else’s turn.

## **Two-Weapon Fighting (Bonus Action):**

<table><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><p>When you take the Attack action and attack with a light melee weapon that you’re holding in one hand, you can use a bonus action to attack with a different, light melee weapon that you’re holding in the other hand</p><p> </p><ul><li><blockquote><p>You <strong>don’t add your ability modifier to the damage of the bonus attack</strong> (unless negative) when dual wielding. You can throw if ranged.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>You can attack different targets &lt;<a href="http://www.enworld.org/forum/content.php?1900-D-D-5th-Edition-Sage-Advice-from-Designers-Mearls-Crawford#.VNZGbfnF-Sq">http://www.enworld.org/forum/content.php?1900-D-D-5th-Edition-Sage-Advice-from-Designers-Mearls-Crawford#.VNZGbfnF-Sq</a>&gt;</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>This extra attack uses your bonus action, so it can only be used once a turn, even with the multi-attack action.</p></blockquote></li></ul><p> </p></td></tr></tbody></table>