---
title: Confusion
updated: 2021-06-13 02:30:53Z
created: 2018-07-24 20:16:33Z
---

<table><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><h1 id="confusion"><strong>Confusion</strong></h1><p><em>4th-level enchantment</em></p><ul><li><blockquote><p><strong>Casting Time</strong>: 1 action</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p><strong>Range</strong>: 90 feet</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p><strong>Components</strong>: V, S, M <em>(three nut shells)</em></p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p><strong>Duration</strong>: Concentration, up to 1 minute</p></blockquote></li></ul><p> </p><p>This spell assaults and twists creatures' minds, spawning delusions and provoking uncontrolled action.</p><p> </p><p>Each creature in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on a point you choose within range must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw when you cast this spell or be affected by it.</p><p> </p><p>An affected target can’t take reactions and must roll a d10 at the start of each of its turns to determine its behavior for that turn.</p><p> </p><table><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><strong>d10</strong></td><td><strong>Behavior</strong></td></tr><tr class="even"><td>1</td><td><p>The creature uses all its movement to move in a random direction. To determine the direction, roll</p><p>a d8 and assign a direction to each die face. The creature doesn’t take an action this turn.</p></td></tr><tr class="odd"><td>2-6</td><td>The creature doesn’t move or take actions this turn.</td></tr><tr class="even"><td>7-8</td><td><p>The creature uses its action to make a melee attack against a randomly determined creature within its</p><p>reach. If there is no creature within its reach, the creature does nothing this turn.</p></td></tr><tr class="odd"><td>9-10</td><td>The creature can act and move normally.</td></tr></tbody></table><p> </p><p>At the end of each of its turns, an affected target can make a Wisdom saving throw. If it succeeds, this effect ends for that target.</p><p> </p><p> </p><p><strong>At Higher Levels.</strong> When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the radius of the sphere increases by 5 feet for each slot level above 4th.</p><p> </p></td></tr></tbody></table>