---
title: Cover
updated: 2021-06-13 12:26:22Z
created: 2018-07-28 02:26:55Z
---

## **Cover:**

<table><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><p>Walls, trees, creatures, and other obstacles can provide cover during combat, making a target more difficult to harm. A target can benefit from cover only when an attack or other effect originates on the opposite side of the cover.</p><p>There are three degrees of cover. If a target is behind multiple sources of cover, only the most protective degree of cover applies; the degrees aren’t added together. For example, if a target is behind a creature that gives half cover and a tree trunk that gives three-quarters cover, the target has three-quarters cover.</p><p> </p><p> </p><h2 id="half-cover"><strong>Half Cover:</strong></h2><ul><li><blockquote><p>Half cover has a +2 bonus to AC and Dexterity saving throws.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>A target has half cover if an obstacle blocks at least half of its body. The obstacle might be a low wall, a large piece of furniture, a narrow tree trunk, or a creature, whether that creature is an enemy or a friend.</p></blockquote></li></ul><p> </p><h2 id="three-quarters-cover"><strong>Three-Quarters Cover:</strong></h2><ul><li><blockquote><p>A target with three-quarters cover has a +5 bonus to AC and Dexterity saving throws.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>A target has three quarters cover if about three-quarters of it is covered by an obstacle. The obstacle might be a portcullis, an arrow slit, or a thick tree trunk.</p></blockquote></li></ul><p> </p><h2 id="full-cover"><strong>Full Cover:</strong></h2><ul><li><blockquote><p>A target with total cover can’t be targeted directly by an attack or a spell, although some spells can reach such a target by including it in an area of effect.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>A target has total cover if it is completely concealed by an obstacle.</p></blockquote></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>
