Normally, I’ll save ideas like this for Æthercoil Magazine, but the OGL doesn’t allow me to put Illithids into any homebrew world (I might get around that by invoking Cthulhu, who is, as I last checked, Public Domain.) However, since Mind Flayers are a part of the Forgotten Realms Lore, I feel that this brainfart is suitable here.

I know that Forgotten Realms [[Drow]] have teamed up with Mind Flayers in the past (as seen in the MMO *[[Neverwinter]].*) Just the other day I had a thought about a person who would've become a Mind Flayer, but the Ceremophosis goes awry, the tadpole merging with the brain rather than replacing it. The result is what I’ll call an “Illithoid,” someone who is still [[Human]] in both looks and diet (Eating normal food instead of brains) but has all of the abilities and nature of a Mind Flayer. They can even be part of a colony. An Illithoid can also be created by putting a tadpole on a pregnant woman and the child is born during the process (since the birth is induces possibility of the baby being premature or stillborn are high). Either way, the Illithoid is a curiosity to the more traditional Mind Flayers and is still welcomed to the colony; the Elder Brain believing that the Illithoid is an opportunity to learn more about humankind and is often ordered to explore the [[Human]] world for the colony.

(Important Note: I refer to all sentient beings in the campaign setting when I say 'humankind'. For generalities only, I include Elves, Dwarves, Halflings, and all the other [[Races]].)

I thought I’ve seen a player race that deals with just this, but I can’t seem to find it. Maybe someone out there might send me a link. When I get it, I’ll append this entry.
