---
title: Magic Circle
updated: 2021-06-13 02:10:50Z
created: 2018-07-24 23:04:59Z
---

<table><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><h1 id="magic-circle"><strong>Magic Circle</strong></h1><p><em>3rd-level abjuration</em></p><ul><li><blockquote><p><strong>Casting Time:</strong> 1 minute</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p><strong>Range</strong>: 10 feet</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p><strong>Components</strong>: V, S, M <em>(holy water or powdered silver and iron worth at least 100 gold, which the spell consumes)</em></p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p><strong>Duration</strong>: 1 hour</p></blockquote></li></ul><p> </p><p>You create a 10-foot-radius, 20-foot-tall cylinder of magical energy centered on a point on the ground that you can see within range. Glowing runes appear wherever the cylinder intersects with the floor or other surface.</p><p> </p><p>Choose one or more of the following types of creatures: celestials, elementals, fey, fiends, or undead. The circle affects a creature of the chosen type in the following ways:</p><p> </p><blockquote><p>• The creature can’t willingly enter the cylinder by Non-magical means. If the creature tries to use teleportation or inter-planar travel to do so, it must first succeed on a Charisma saving throw.</p><p>• The creature has disadvantage on attack rolls against targets within the cylinder.</p><p>• Targets within the cylinder can’t be charmed, frightened, or possessed by the creature.</p></blockquote><p> </p><p>When you cast this spell, you can elect to cause its magic to operate in the reverse direction, preventing a creature of the specified type from leaving the cylinder and protecting targets outside it.</p><p> </p><p> </p><p> </p><p><strong>At Higher Levels.</strong> When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the duration increases by 1 hour for each slot level above 3rd.</p><p> </p></td></tr></tbody></table>