[[Morak UrGray]] is the most important NPC here, taking over for the deceased [[Lady Nandar]] and offering Quests ([Moraks Quest] that bridge players from this starting adventure to the rest of Storm King's Thunder campaign.

 

Otherwise no other character really serves as a Dramatis Personae / Major NPCs for the story and so these characters weren't given their own pages (you can change this if you wish them to be reoccurring characters in your adventure).

 

# **Nightstone Villagers (Currently Prisoners in the** **[Dripping Caves]**

<table><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><h1 id="agganor-family."><strong>Agganor Family.</strong> </h1><ul><li><blockquote><p><strong>Destiny Agganor</strong> (age 42) is Nightstone’s tiefling midwife.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>Her son, <strong>Grin Agganor</strong> (age 27), worked in the village’s stable house, feeding the horses and cleaning the stalls for Lady Nandar.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>Destiny worships Asmodeus but doesn’t impose her beliefs on anyone else, including her son.</p></blockquote></li></ul><p> </p><h1 id="delfryndel-family."><strong>Delfryndel Family.</strong></h1><ul><li><blockquote><p>The Delfryndels are Tethyrian humans. They own and operate Nightstone’s windmill.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>The surviving family members are <strong>Renarra Delfryndel</strong> (age 64), her youngest son <strong>Zalf</strong> (age 40), his wife <strong>Elize</strong> (age 37), and their two adolescent children, <strong>Darson</strong> (age 17) and <strong>Hildy</strong> (age 14).</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>No family members died in the giant attack, but Renarra’s eldest son, <strong>Olaf, was killed and eaten by the goblins.</strong></p></blockquote></li></ul><p> </p><h1 id="hulvaarn-family."><strong>Hulvaarn Family.</strong> </h1><ul><li><blockquote><p>The Hulvaarns are Damaran human potato and turnip farmers.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>The surviving family members are <strong>Godrick Hulvaarn</strong> (age 32), his wife <strong>Prennis</strong> (age 30), and their three children: daughter <strong>Jehanna</strong> (age 12) and twin sons <strong>Ellis</strong> and <strong>Ghalt</strong> (age 9).</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>The children lost their grandfather (Godrick’s father, <strong>Nestor</strong>) in the giant attack on Nightstone.</p></blockquote></li></ul><p> </p><h1 id="nesper-family."><strong>Nesper Family.</strong> </h1><ul><li><blockquote><p>The Nespers are Tethyrian human pumpkin and squash farmers.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>None of them were killed in the giant attack, but three of them died at the hands of the goblins and ogres in the Dripping Caves.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>The remaining family members are <strong>Yondra</strong> (age 15) and her brother <strong>Sarvin</strong> (age 11).</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>They lost both of their parents and an older sister named <strong>Sylda</strong>.</p></blockquote></li></ul><p> </p><h1 id="osstra-family."><strong>Osstra Family.</strong> </h1><ul><li><blockquote><p>The Osstras are Tethyrian human wheat farmers.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>The surviving family members include <strong>Thelbin Osstra</strong> (age 52) and his husband, <strong>Brynn</strong> (age 52), and their good-hearted nephew, <strong>Broland</strong> (age 23).</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>Brynn lost his elderly mother and younger sister (Broland’s mother) to the goblins.</p></blockquote></li></ul><p> </p><h1 id="summerhawk-family."><strong>Summerhawk Family.</strong> </h1><ul><li><blockquote><p>The Summerhawks are strongheart halflings.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p><strong>Taela Summerhawk</strong> (age 28), an apothecary, comforts her four young children, <strong>Barley</strong> (age 10), <strong>Midge</strong> (age 8), <strong>Nincy</strong> (age 6), and <strong>Dollop</strong> (age 3).</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>Taela’s husband, <strong>Larlow</strong>, was killed in Nightstone when a rock fell on their house.</p></blockquote></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>