---
title: Proficiency
updated: 2021-06-13 23:43:22Z
created: 2018-07-25 21:22:16Z
---

## **Proficiency:**
<table><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><p>Characters have a proficiency bonus determined by level, as detailed in chapter 1. Monsters also have this bonus, which is incorporated in their stat blocks. The bonus is used in the rules on ability checks, saving throws, and attack rolls.</p><p> </p><p>Your proficiency bonus can’t be added to a single die roll or other number more than once. For example, if two different rules say you can add your proficiency bonus to a Wisdom saving throw, you nevertheless add the bonus only once when you make the save.</p><p> </p><p>Occasionally, your proficiency bonus might be multiplied or divided (doubled or halved, for example) before you apply it. For example, the rogue’s Expertise feature doubles the proficiency bonus for certain ability checks. If a circumstance suggests that your proficiency bonus applies more than once to the same roll, you still add it only once and multiply or divide it only once.</p><p> </p><p>By the same token, if a feature or effect allows you to multiply your proficiency bonus when making an ability check that wouldn’t normally benefit from your proficiency bonus, you still don’t add the bonus to the check. For that check your proficiency bonus is 0, given the fact that multiplying 0 by any number is still 0. For instance, if you lack proficiency in the History skill, you gain no benefit from a feature that lets you double your proficiency bonus when you make Intelligence (History) checks.</p><p> </p><p>In general, you don’t multiply your proficiency bonus for attack rolls or saving throws. If a feature or effect allows you to do so, these same rules apply.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

### **Proficiency Bonus**

<table><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><table><tbody><tr class="odd"><td>Level</td><td>Proficiency</td></tr><tr class="even"><td>1</td><td>+2</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td>2</td><td>+2</td></tr><tr class="even"><td>3</td><td>+2</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td>4</td><td>+2</td></tr><tr class="even"><td>5</td><td>+3</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td>6</td><td>+3</td></tr><tr class="even"><td>7</td><td>+3</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td>8</td><td>+3</td></tr><tr class="even"><td>9</td><td>+4</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td>10</td><td>+4</td></tr><tr class="even"><td>11</td><td>+4</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td>12</td><td>+4</td></tr><tr class="even"><td>13</td><td>+5</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td>14</td><td>+5</td></tr><tr class="even"><td>15</td><td>+5</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td>16</td><td>+5</td></tr><tr class="even"><td>17</td><td>+6</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td>18</td><td>+6</td></tr><tr class="even"><td>19</td><td>+6</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td>20</td><td>+6</td></tr></tbody></table></td></tr></tbody></table>

## **Proficiency Bonus:**

<table><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><p>The table that appears in your class description shows your proficiency bonus, which is +2 for a 1st-level character. Your proficiency bonus applies to many of the numbers you’ll be recording on your character sheet:</p><p> </p><ul><li><blockquote><p>Attack rolls using weapons you’re proficient with</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>Attack rolls with spells you cast</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>Ability checks using skills you’re proficient in</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>Ability checks using tools you’re proficient with</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>Saving throws you’re proficient in</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>Saving throw DCs for spells you cast (explained in each spellcasting class)</p></blockquote></li></ul><blockquote><p> </p></blockquote><p>Your class determines your weapon proficiencies, your saving throw proficiencies, and some of your skill and tool proficiencies. Your background gives you additional skill and tool proficiencies, and some races give you more proficiencies. Be sure to note all of these proficiencies, as well as your proficiency bonus, on your character sheet.</p><p>Your proficiency bonus can’t be added to a single die roll or other number more than once. Occasionally, your proficiency bonus might be modified (doubled or halved, for example) before you apply it. If a circumstance suggests that your proficiency bonus applies more than once to the same roll or that it should be multiplied more than once, you nevertheless add it only once, multiply it only once, and halve it only once.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

## **Determining Proficiency Bonus When Multi-Classing:**

|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Your proficiency bonus is always based on your total character level**, as shown in the Character Advancement table in chapter 1, not your level in a particular class. For example, if you are a fighter 3/rogue 2, you have the proficiency bonus of a 5th-level character, which is +3. |


 

 
## **Weapon Proficiency:**
<table><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><p>Your race, class, and feats can grant you proficiency with certain weapons or categories of weapons. The two categories are simple and martial. Most people can use simple weapons with proficiency. These weapons include clubs, maces, and other weapons often found in the hands of commoners. Martial weapons, including swords, axes, and polearms, require more specialized training to use effectively. Most warriors use martial weapons because these weapons put their fighting style and training to best use.</p><p> </p><p><strong>Proficiency with a weapon allows you to add your proficiency bonus to the attack roll for any attack you make with that weapon.</strong> If you make an attack roll using a weapon with which you lack proficiency, you do not add your proficiency bonus to the attack roll.</p><p> </p><p> </p></td></tr></tbody></table>

## **Vehicle Proficiency:**
If you have proficiency with a certain kind of vehicle (land or water), you can add your proficiency bonus to any check you make to control that kind of vehicle in difficult circumstances. 

## **Tool Proficiency:**
<table><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><p>Tool proficiencies work in a similar way.</p><p> </p><ul><li><blockquote><p>If you are proficient with a <strong>gaming set</strong>, you can add your proficiency bonus to ability checks you make to play a game with that set. Each type of gaming set requires a separate proficiency.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>Proficiency with a <strong>forgery kit</strong> lets you add your proficiency bonus to any ability checks you make to create a physical forgery of a document.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>If you have proficiency with a given <strong>musical instrument</strong>, you can add your proficiency bonus to any ability checks you make to play music with it. Each instrument requires its own proficiency.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>Proficiency with <strong>navigator’s tools</strong> lets you chart a ship’s course and follow navigation charts. In addition, these tools allow you to add your proficiency bonus to any ability check you make to avoid getting lost at sea.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>Proficiency with a <strong>poisoners kit</strong> lets you add your proficiency bonus to any ability checks you make to craft or use poisons.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>Proficiency with <strong>thieves' tools</strong> lets you add your proficiency bonus to any ability checks you make to disarm traps or open locks.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>Proficiency with a <strong>herbalism kit</strong> lets you add your proficiency bonus to any ability checks you make to identify or apply herbs. Also, proficiency with this kit is required to create antitoxin and potions of healing.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>Proficiency with a set of <strong>artisan’s tools</strong> lets you add your proficiency bonus to any ability checks you make using the tools in your craft. Each type of artisan’s tools requires a separate proficiency.</p></blockquote></li><li><blockquote><p>Proficiency with a <strong>disguise kit</strong> lets you add your proficiency bonus to any ability checks you make to create a visual disguise.</p></blockquote></li></ul><p> </p></td></tr></tbody></table>