---
title: Reactions
updated: 2021-06-20 05:14:49Z
created: 2018-07-28 02:10:08Z
---

## **Reactions:**

<table><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><p>Certain special abilities, spells, and situations allow you to take a special action called a reaction. A reaction is an instant response to a trigger of some kind, which can occur on your turn or on someone else’s. The opportunity attack, described later in this chapter, is the most common type of reaction.</p><p> </p><p>When you take a reaction, you can’t take another one until the start of your next turn. If the reaction interrupts another creature’s turn, that creature can continue its turn right after the reaction.</p><p> </p></td></tr></tbody></table>

## **Opportunity Attack (Reaction):**

<table><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><p>In a fight, everyone is constantly watching for enemies to drop their guard. You can rarely move heedlessly past your foes without putting yourself in danger; doing so provokes an opportunity attack.</p><p> </p><p>You can make an opportunity attack when a hostile creature that you can see moves out of your reach. <strong>To make the opportunity attack, you use your reaction to make one melee attack against the provoking creature.</strong> The attack occurs right before the creature leaves your reach.</p><p> </p><p>You can avoid provoking an opportunity attack by taking the Disengage action. You also don’t provoke an opportunity attack when you teleport or when someone or something moves you without using your movement, action, or reaction. For example, you don’t provoke an opportunity attack if an explosion hurls you out of a foe’s reach or if gravity causes you to fall past an enemy.</p><p> </p><p>Some creatures have traits that also allow them to bypass Opportunity Attacks (such as an Owl's flyby).</p><p> </p></td></tr></tbody></table>

<table><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><p><strong>CAN YOU USE A MELEE SPELL ATTACK TO MAKE AN OPPORTUNITY ATTACK?</strong></p><p>You can’t if the spell attack is created by casting a spell. When a creature triggers an opportunity attack from you, you can use your reaction to make a melee attack against it. The opportunity attack doesn’t suddenly give you the ability to cast a spell, such as shocking grasp.</p><p>Each spell has a casting time. A game feature, such as an opportunity attack, doesn’t let you bypass that casting time, unless the feature says otherwise. The War Caster feat is an example of a feature that does let you bypass a 1-action casting time to cast a spell in place of an opportunity attack.</p><p> </p><p>A few monsters can make opportunity attacks with melee spell attacks. Here’s how: certain monsters—including the banshee, lich, and specter—have a melee spell attack that isn’t delivered by a spell. For example, the banshee’s Corrupting Touch action is a melee spell attack but no spell is cast to make it. The banshee can, therefore, make opportunity attacks with Corrupting Touch.</p><p> </p><p> </p><p> </p><p><strong>How does a reach weapon work with opportunity attacks?</strong></p><p>An opportunity attack is normally triggered when a creature you can see moves beyond your reach (PH, 195). If you want to make an opportunity attack with a reach weapon, such as a glaive or a halberd, you can do so when a creature leaves the reach you have with that weapon. For example, if you’re wielding a halberd, a creature that is right next to you could move 5 feet away without triggering an opportunity attack. If that creature tries to move an additional 5 feet—beyond your 10-foot reach—the creature then triggers an opportunity attack.</p><p> </p><p> </p></td></tr><tr class="even"><td><em>From &lt;</em><a href="https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/rules-spellcasting">https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/rules-spellcasting</a><em>&gt;<br />
From &lt;</em><a href="http://media.wizards.com/2015/downloads/dnd/SA_Compendium_1.01.pdf">http://media.wizards.com/2015/downloads/dnd/SA_Compendium_1.01.pdf</a><em>&gt;</em></td></tr></tbody></table>
