Star Wars
Group of good-willed punks, working for whatever crime lord was offering more at the time, trying to fulfill his requests without harming anyone too much.
Republic loyalists "on the run" from the Empire, living day to day as a medium transport crew (no, this was before Firefly came out.)
COMPNOR/SAGroup members joining the Imperial Academy together, going through both infantry and space training, ending up joining the Imperial Special Forces Command.
Jedi apprentices in Luke's Yavin IV Temple (back in the pre-PT days), going through learning the ways of the Force, and doing missions for the Temple and the New Republic.
 
The first campaign ended with them joining the Rebellion, and fighting in the Battle for Coruscant.
The second campaign ended with the party having raised a transportation fleet, and moving into the Unknown Regions, settling on a planet with their Organization.
The third campaign ended with the PCs joining the Imperial Royal Guard, and barely escaping death on the second Death Star, going back to Coruscant, and then turning rogue when Ysanne Isard took over the Empire.
The last group ended when they had to kill one of their own, who had turned to the Dark Side and was sabotaging their efforts. Great ending, an epic battle we played while the OT soundtrack was playing in the background.


m two sessions into a campaign where the jedi have hired some mercenaries to quietly eliminate some fallen jedi after the great sith war in the old republic era. They are hunting a fallen jedi on Csilla, homeworld of the Chiss. Basically the jedi have a pr problem after exar kun and they need to outsource their dirty work.

My campaign is set in the old republic, pretty much at the exact same time as KOTOR. I started them off as gladiator slaves on Taris, that way they got right into the combat and then had to work together to escape. They escaped right as Malak started his bombardment of the city. But from there I had them run into a group I made up. I did some reading on powerful force users and learned of Exar Kun. I took some of his story and changed it to give the group something to work toward stopping. Basically I took Exar Kun's story and tweaked it to where when he completed the ritual killing his physical self and making him a force ghost, he also made his 19 acolytes immortal, only being permanently killed when someone strikes the finishing blow with one of Kun's "relics" which so far are his double bladed pale blue lightsaber and a gauntlet I think I made up. If someone kills one of the acolytes by any other means they hear a maniacal laugh and that acolyte takes control of another willing or weak willed humanoid. Basically the acolytes are traveling world to world enslaving and recruiting people to their cause. They are trying to collect Kun's artifacts and bring him back to a physical form so they can assume power over Jedi and other Sith in the galaxy. I've also tried to incorporate scenarios from movies, we did a bit with Airheads where they had to take over a radio station to send a signal, but where it deviates from the movie is our smuggler got a little crazy and got a couple kids killed. I also did Alien but with a wampa. It can be tough making a home brew campaign, I want things to make sense and my players to have fun. I'm always hard on myself thinking it can be better or I could have prepared more, but my players always tell me they have fun and look forward to next time, so thats what keeps me going.
