Staff, very rare (requires attunement by a sorcerer, warlock, or wizard)

This staff can be wielded as a magic quarterstaff that grants a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with it. While holding it, you gain a +2 bonus to Armor Class saving throws, and spell attack rolls.

The staff has 20 charges for the following properties. The staff regains 2d8 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, the staff retains its +2 bonus to attack and damage roll but loses all other properties. On a 20, the staff regain 1d8 + 2 charges.

Power Strike. When you hit with a melee attack using the staff, you can expend 1 charge to deal an extra 1d6 force damage to the target.

Spells. While holding this staff, you can use an action to expend 1 or more of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it, using your spell save DC and spell attack bonus: [[Cone of Cold|cone of cold]] (5 charges), [[Fireball|fireball]] (5th-level version, 5 charges), [[Globe of Invulnerability|globe of invulnerability]] (6 charges), [[Hold Monster|hold monster]] (5 charges), [[Levitate|levitate]] (2 charges). [[Lightning Bolt|lightning bolt]] (5th-level version, 5 charges), [[Campaign Resources/Magic/Spells/Magic Missile|magic missile]] (1 charge), [[Ray of Enfeeblement|ray of enfeeblement]] (1 charge), or [[Campaign Resources/Magic/Spells/Wall of Force|wall of force]] (5 charges).

Retributive Strike. You can use an action to break the staff over your knee or against a solid surface, performing a retributive strike. The staff is destroyed and releases its remaining magic in an explosion that expands to fill a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on it. You have a 50 percent chance to instantly travel to a random plane of existence, avoiding the explosion. If you fail to avoid the effect, you take force damage equal to 16 x the number of charge in the staff. Every other creature in the area must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save. a creature rake an amount of damage based on how far away it is from the point of origin, as shown in the following table. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage.

<table><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><strong>Distance from Origin</strong></td><td><strong>Damage</strong></td></tr><tr class="even"><td>10 ft. away or closer</td><td>8 x the number of charges in the staff</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td>11 to 20 ft. away</td><td>6 x the number of charges in the staff</td></tr><tr class="even"><td>21 to 30ft. Away</td><td>4 x the number of charges in the staff</td></tr></tbody></table>