---
tags:
  - Barovia
  - Balky
---
# DM
[[Balky]]
# Players

[[Tauhu]] - [[Mayari Elatha]]
[[Mo]] - [[Wayhand Deepmaul]]
[[Thierry]] - [[Wrelen Steamsparker]]
[[Niki]] - [[Rabbit]]
[[Ashie]] - [[Senra Holm]]
[[Zen]] - [[Raleigh Mathari]]
[[Redact]] - [[Uriel Flesky]]


# About the campaign

From Issue 1:

My image of a vampire is different from what Tracy and Laura described in Curse of Strahd. I saw [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] more in the light of various shows such as Angel, Forever Knight, Moonlight, and other shows where the Vampire has some heroic qualities that balance out the monster they are. In this light, I made [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] into an Anti-Villian who watches over [[Barovia]] in a more hands-on variant of what Sorin Markov did with Innistrad. In fact, I included parts of [[Plane Shift]]: Innistrad into Curse of Strahd, especially with [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]’s origin.

Because I wanted [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] to be more three-dimensional, even heroic in parts. To this end, I needed a rather nasty opponent. In an object application of “Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned,” I created one in, of all people, Tatyanna. In my version of Curse of [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]], she returns to Ravenloft as a vampire as powerful as [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] and double the vindictiveness.

In this custom setting, [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] didn’t kill [[Sergei von Zarovich|Sergei]] to get Tatyanna, but a third party led by the dragonlich Argynovost, kidnapping Tatyanna and injuring [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] in the process, then sped away to do something nefarious to Tatyanna. It is here where [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] made the pact that turned him into a vampire (A noble twist on his dark origins.) [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] made short work on Argynovost’s forces, but the result with Tatyanna was the same: She was too terrified of what [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] became, so she hurled herself into the mists, never to be seen again.

The party starts the campaign as normal, with some clues that there may be some lines [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] doesn’t cross; he might let innocents pass, or spirit them into his castle to protect them. (Where he keeps a heard of people to feed on.) They might find [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] having fond memories of [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]], knowing his noble side, and even dated for a while. He might even be seen pulling off a Dexter Morgan, killing someone who is even worse than him.

It isn’t until the party gets [[The Three]] treasures and faces him when they find the real villain: Tatyanna returns as a vampire believing the original version of the story—the cannon Ravenloft version. She returns to [[Barovia]] to kill [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]], take his place as Lord of Ravenloft, and drive the whole demiplane into dust and ashes. All of the souls trapped in this realm be damned.

I only ran this version of Curse of Strahd once, but I want to develop it here.

# STORY OVERVIEW 

Adventurers from a foreign land find themselves in [[Barovia]], a mysterious realm surrounded by deadly fog and ruled by [[Strahd von Zarovich 1 1]], a vampire and wizard. Using a deck of tarokka cards to predict their future, a fortune-teller named [[Madam Eva]] sets them on a dark course that takes them to many corners of [[Barovia]], culminating with a vampire hunt in [[Castle Ravenloft]]. [[Madam Eva]]'s people are called the [[Vistani]]. 

They travel in covered wagons from world to world, luring strangers into [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]'s domain. [[Barovia]] is a land of ghosts, werewolves, and other fell creatures. The wilderness hides many secrets, including forgotten ruins and battlefields that tell the story of [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]'s life as a conqueror. Adventurers who explore the wilderness find the remnants of [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]'s ancient enemies, not all of them as dead as one might expect. For the people of [[Barovia]], there is no escape from this harsh land. 

The town of [[Vallaki]] stands ready to defend itself against the servants of [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]], but it's far from the sanctuary it purports to be. The village of [[Krezk]] lies near the edge of [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]'s domain, its abbey now in the clutches of evil, misguided creatures. Of all the settlements in [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]'s domain, the village of [[Barovia]] is by far the most oppressed. Many of its shops are closed, and the locals jave succumbed to despair.  It is well known that Strahd desires the burgomaster's adopted daughter [[Ireena Kolyana]]. The villagers neither-protect nor harm her, lest they incur the vampire's wrath. Few know that Ireerna bears an ncanny resemblance to [[Tatyana Ivanova]], Stiahd's dead beloved.

The [[Village of Barovia]] cowers in the shadow of [[Castle Ravenloft]], [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]'s home and fortress. The castle stands atop a great spire of rock, invincible and ever watchful. Every night, thousands of bats fly out of the castle to feed. It is said that Strahd sometimes flies with them. [[Barovia]] will never be safe until the evil in his castle is destroyed. 

Once [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] becomes aware of the adventurers, he and his spies watch them closely. When the time is right, [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] invites his "guests" to [[Castle Ravenloft]]. He aims to turn them against one another, torment them, and kill them, as he has done with so many other visitors. Some will become undead thralls. Others will never rise again. The adventurers' best hope of defeating [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] is to learn his secrets, for he is no ordinary vampire. Guided by [[Madam Eva]]'s card reading, they must scour his domain and his castle for magic items that might weaken or slay him, all the while trying to stay alive. Although the adventurers can escape by slaying [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]], he can't be truly destroyed. [[Barovia]] is his prison, and not even death can free him from his curse. The adventure ends when either [[Strahd von Zarovich]] or the characters are defeated. Your goal is to keep [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] in play for as long as possible, using all the abilities and resources at his disposal.

# Adventure Hooks
In the event that begins the adventure, the fates of [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] and the adventurers are entwined as the characters are invited or forced into his domain. Different ways to get the adventurers to [[Barovia]] are described in the sections that follow. Use whichever one you favour. In "Plea for Help," a colourfully dressed stranger approaches the characters while they are staying at a tavern. The stranger delivers a letter from his master, inviting them to the village of [[Barovia]] with an urgent request for their assistance. If the characters take the bait, the fog engulfs them as they cross into [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]'s domain. 

In "Mysterious Visitors," the characters are asked to scare off a band of rowdy travellers who are camped outside the town of [[Daggerford]], on the Sword Coast in the Forgotten Realms campaign setting. The travellers welcome the characters to their camp and invite them to sit by their fire while their elder recounts a tragic tale of a cursed yet [[Noble]] prince. The characters, lulled into a trance by the fire, awaken to find themselves on a foggy road, delivered to [[Barovia]] by their [[Vistani]] hosts. 

In "Werewolves in the Mist," the characters are drawn together by a series of werewolf attacks. The hunt for this pack of lycanthropes leads the characters into a forest, where they are swept into the land of [[Barovia]]. This hook assumes the use of the five [[Factions]] featured in the Adventurers League. 

In "Creeping Fog," the characters are traveling a lonely road through the woods when the fog engulfs them, spiriting them away to the land of [[Barovia]]. 

### PLEA FOR HELP 
The characters start their adventure in an old tavern, the details of which are for you to decide, To a party of seasoned adventurers such as yourselves, what you see is but another dull tavern in another dull town in some nameless province. It is but another span of time between the challenges of true adventuring. 
Outside the tavern, a fog lies over the town this evening. The damp, cobbled pavement glistens as the lights of street lanterns dance across the slick stones. The fog chills the bones and shivers the soul of anyone outside. Yet inside these tavern walls the food is hearty, and the ale is warm and frothy. A fire blazes in the hearth, and the tavern is alive with the tumbling voices of country folk. Suddenly, the tavern door swings open, and a hush falls over the room. Framed by the lamp-lit fog, a form strides through the doorway. His heavy, booted footfalls and the jingle of his coins shatter the silence. His brightly coloured clothes are draped in loose folds about him, and his hat hangs askew, hiding his eyes in shadows. 
Without hesitation, he walks up to your table and stands proudly in a wide stance with folded arms. In an accented voice he says, "I have been sent to you to deliver this message. If you be creatures of honour, you will come to my master's aid at first light. It is not advisable to travel the [[Svalich Woods]] at night!" He pulls from his tunic a sealed letter, addressed to all of you in beautiful flowing script. He drops the letter on the table. "Take the west road from here some five hours march down through the [[Svalich Woods]]. There you will find my master in [[Barovia]]." Amid the silent stares of the patronage, the gypsy strides to the bar and says to the wary barkeep, "Fill the glasses, one and all. Their throats are obviously parched." He drops a purse heavy with gold on the bar. With that, he leaves. The babble of tavern voices resumes, although somewhat subdued. The letter is lying before you. The seal is in the shape of a crest you don't recognize. The characters can interrupt the messenger at any time. 
His name is [[Arrigal]] (NE male [[Human]] [[Assassin]]), and he is a [[Vistani]]. The other tavern patrons regard his people as friendly folk who travel about in covered wagons and usually keep to themselves. [[Arrigal]] describes [[Barovia]] as a valley of great beauty and his master as a remarkable man. If the characters question [[Arrigal]] about the identity of his master, he claims to serve Burgomaster [[Kolyan Indirovich]], but in truth he serves [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]. After delivering the letter, [[Arrigal]] mounts his horse and rides off. He doesn't wait for the characters to follow him. The crest depicted on the letter's seal belongs to [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]], though the characters have never seen it before. Show the players [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]'s crest on page 239. The letter, which seems to have been written by the burgomaster, was actually penned by [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]. If the characters read the letter, show the players "[[Kolyan Indirovich]]'s Letter (Version 1)" in appendix F. The letter is bait to lure the adventurers to [[Barovia]]. If the characters take the bait, they arrive at area A (see chapter 2, "The Lands of [[Barovia]]"). 

### MYSTERIOUS VISITORS 
The details of this adventure hook assume that your D&D campaign is based in or near [[Daggerford]], a town on the Sword Coast in the Forgotten Realms, but you can change the location to suit your campaign. 
Duchess [[Morwen]] of [[Daggerford]] is having guests for dinner-and you are invited. No strangers to [[Daggerford]], you have come to the town's defence on more than one occasion, and you count Lady [[Morwen]] as a friend and a benefactor. A cool autumn breeze blows through the streets as you make your way to the keep. As you dine on hot, spicy soup and tenderly cooked pheasant, you can tell that the duchess seems more out of sorts than usual. Then a pall comes over the occasion as she voices her concern about a band of wayward travellers camped outside the town's walls. 
They seemed harmless at first, but [[Morwen]] has received reports that they have begun harassing townsfolk and other visitors as they come and go, demanding money and wine, and threatening to put hexes on anyone who doesn't pay up. Yesterday, the duchess ordered several guards to scare away the mysterious visitors, but they couldn't get the job done. When the guards returned, they spoke sympathetically about the visitors. It seemed as if the guards had been magically charmed. 
[[Morwen]] doesn't want an armed conflict, but she aims to send a stern message to the visitors and asks you to deliver it on her behalf. "If they don't leave before dawn," she says, "I'll burn their wagons to the ground." The characters are asked to deliver Duchess [[Morwen]]'s message immediately after dinner. The travellers are camped on the hill outside the gates of [[Daggerford]], near the road. Guards atop the walls watch the camp closely at all hours. When the characters approach the camp, read: As the evening grows dark, you see a dozen men and women gathered around a crackling bonfire. The folk are in good spirits. A few of them sing and dance around the fire while others find happiness in their flasks and wineskins. Three barrel-topped wagons are parked at odd angles. Tied to a nearby tree, grazing, are half a dozen draft horses wearing bright coats with bangles and tassels. The men and women are [[Vistani]].
They have no interest in [[Daggerford]]. Their orders are to deliver the characters safely to [[Barovia]]. The leader of this group is [[Stanimir]]. (NC Male [[Human]]), an old man with the statistics of a mage who has the following spells prepared: 
· Cantrips (at will): [[Friends]], [[Campaign Resources/Magic/Spells/Light]], [[Campaign Resources/Magic/Spells/Mage Hand]], [[Campaign Resources/Magic/Spells/Prestidigitation]] 
· 1st level (4 slots): [[Campaign Resources/Magic/Spells/Charm Person]], [[Mage Armor]], [[Shield]], [[Campaign Resources/Magic/Spells/Sleep]] . 
· 2nd level (3 slots): [[Campaign Resources/Magic/Spells/Misty Step]], [[Suggestion]] 
· 3rd level (3 slots): [[Campaign Resources/Magic/Spells/Bestow Curse]], [[Campaign Resources/Magic/Spells/Phantom Steed]], [[Vampiric Touch]] 
· 4th level (3 slots): [[Greater Invisibility]], stoneskin 
· 5th level (1 slot): [[Dominate Person]] 

[[Stanimir]] is joined by his daughter, [[Damia]] (CN male [[Human]] [[Spy]]), and his son, [[Ratka]] (CN male [[Human]] [[Bandit Captain]]). Nine other [[Vistani]] (CN male and female bandits) heed [[Ratka]]'s commands. The six draft horses are used to pull the [[Vistani]] wagons, which contain their belongings but nothing of value. 

## THE DANCING FIRE 
[[Stanimir]] introduces himself and welcomes the characters to his camp. If they deliver Duchess [[Morwen]]'s warning, read: [[Stanimir]] laughs. "Don't worry. We have no [[Campaign Resources/Magic/Spells/Wish]] to make enemies of Lady [[Morwen]]. I have a story to tell all of you. First you listen, then we go." If the characters agree to hear [[Stanimir]]'s story, he invites them to gather around the fire and hear his tale: [[Stanimir]] fills his mouth with wine, then spits into the fire. The flames turn from orange to green. As they dance and sway, a dark shape appears in the bonfire's core. 
"We come from an ancient land whose name is long forgotten-a land of kings. Our enemies forced us from our homes, and now we wander the lost roads." 
The dark shape in the fire takes the form of a man being knocked from his horse, a spear piercing his side. [[Stanimir]] continues. 
"One night, a wounded soldier staggered into our camp and collapsed. We nursed his terrible injury and quenched his thirst with wine. He survived. When we asked him who he was, he wouldn't say. All he wanted was to return home, but we were deep in the land of his enemies. We took him as one of our own and followed him back toward his homeland. His enemies hunted him. They said he was a prince, yet we didn't give him up, even when their assassins fell upon us like wolves." Deep in the bonfire, you see the dark figure standing with sword drawn, fighting off a host of shadowy shapes. 
"This man of royal blood fought to protect us, as we protected him. We bore him safely to his home, and he thanked us. He said, 'I owe you my life. Stay as long as you wish, leave when you choose, and know that you will always be safe here."' 
The figure in the dancing fire vanquishes its final foe, then disperses in a cloud of smoke and embers. [[Stanimir]]'s face becomes a sombre mask. 
"A curse has befallen our noble prince, turning him into a tyrant. We alone have the power to leave his domain. We've travelled far and wide to find heroes such as yourselves to end our dread lord's curse and put his troubled soul to rest. Our leader, [[Madam Eva]], knows all. Will you return to [[Barovia]] with us and speak with her?" 
These [[Vistani]] refuse to speak the name of their "dread lord" and provide no additional information. If the characters press them for details, the [[Vistani]] reply, "[[Madam Eva]] has the answers you seek." If the characters agree to accompany the [[Vistani]], the [[Vistani]] lead them south along the [[Trade Way]]. After several days of uneventful travel, the mists of Ravenloft engulf the caravan, transporting the characters and the [[Vistani]] to [[Barovia]]. 
The [[Vistani]] then lead the party safely to their leader, [[Madam Eva]], at area G (see chapter 2). The characters arrive at area A and are taken through areas B, E, and F on the way to [[Madam Eva]]'s camp. If the characters rid themselves of their [[Vistani]] hosts before reaching [[Madam Eva]]'s camp, they're on the own. 
If the characters decline [[Stanimir]]'s invitation, the [[Vistani]] are disappointed but leave as promised. A day or two later, use the "Creeping Fog" adventure hook or some variation of it to draw the characters into [[Barovia]]. 

## WEREWOLVES 
IN THE MIST This adventure hook assumes you're running a campaign in or near [[Daggerford]] (see "Mysterious Visitors" for more information). It also assumes you're using the five player [[Factions]] featured in the Adventurers League. "Werewolves in the mist!" You've heard these dreaded words spoken again and again by farmers, merchants, and adventurers alike. The hamlets east of [[Daggerford]] have fallen prey to a pack of werewolves that spills out of the [[Misty Forest]] on nights of the full moon, cloaked in crawling mist that seems to follow them wherever they go. The beasts spread death and mayhem, slaughtering adults and stealing children before retreating back into the woods. Others have tried to combat the werewolf menace, with little success. The [[Misty Forest]] lies thirty miles east of [[Daggerford]]. Before the characters embark on their quest, those who have faction allegiances receive additional information described in the sections that follow. Take the players aside, and read them the boxed text for their faction. 

### [[Harpers]] 
A Harper named [[Zelraun Roaringhorn]] knows a metalsmith who will silver your weapons for free. He also provides some helpful magic. "We strive to protect the powerless," he says. "If the children kidnapped by the werewolves are still alive, I would see them safely returned." [[Zelraun Roaringhorn]] (LN male [[Human]] [[Mage]]) has come to [[Daggerford]] to meet with its ruler, [[Duchess Morwen]], and offer the [[Harpers]]' support. Zelraun gives each Harper character a [[Campaign Resources/Equipment/Items/Magic Items/Spell Scroll]] of [[Campaign Resources/Magic/Spells/Remove Curse]]. He has also made arrangements with a metalsmith in Waterdeep to sheathe the _characters' weapons in silver. 
The party can have up to six weapons silvered in this manner. Twenty pieces of ammunition count as one weapon for this purpose. About the [[Harpers]]. The [[Harpers]] is a network of spellcasters and spies who advocate equality and who covertly oppose the abuse of power. The organization's longevity is largely due to its decentralized, grassroots, secretive nature, and the autonomy of its members. The [[Harpers]] have small cells and lone operatives throughout the Forgotten Realms. They share information with one another from time to time as needs warrant. The [[Harpers]]' ideology is noble, and its members pride themselves on their ingenuity and incorruptibility. 

### [[Order of the Gauntlet]]
You met with the heads of the [[Order of the Gauntlet]] chapter house in Waterdeep. They've stationed members of the order at various inns and homesteads east of [[Daggerford]], so that locals need not fear the night. Now they're counting on you to find the werewolves' lair in the [[Misty Forest]]. Only then can the order mount an organized assault. As you prepare to depart, a knight of the order named [[Lanniver Strayl]] offers you his blessing. [[Lanniver Strayl]] (LG male [[Human]] knight), a devout follower of Tyr recently arrived in [[Daggerford]], gives a position of heroism to each member of the order in the party. About the [[Order of the Gauntlet]]. Founded by paladins and clerics of Helm, Torm, and Tyr, the order is a dedicated group of like-minded individuals driven by religious zeal or a finely honed sense of justice and honour. The order is ready to lash out the moment evil acts, and not a moment before. The order strikes hard and fast, without waiting for the blessings of temples or the permission of rulers. The order believes that evil must be smashed, or it will swiftly overcome all. 

### [[Emerald Enclave]]
You don't need to consult with others in the [[Emerald Enclave]] to know that the werewolves are upsetting the natural order. For balance to be restored, they must be eradicated. It seems the gods of nature agree, for they've sent good weather and preserved the monsters' tracks. Members of the [[Emerald Enclave]] in the party gain inspiration whenever the party kills a werewolf. About the [[Emerald Enclave]]. This widespread group of wilderness survivalists-preserves the natural order while rooting out unnatural threats. Druids, rangers, and barbarians make up most of its membership. Branches of the organization can be found wherever untamed wilderness exists. Members of the [[Emerald Enclave]] know how to survive, and more important, they want to help others do the same. They aren't opposed to civilization or progress, but they strive to prevent civilization and the wilderness from destroying one another. 

### [[Lord's Alliance]] 
A Lords' Alliance operative from Waterdeep named [[Eravien Haund]] comes to [[Daggerford]] bearing news that alliance agents have not only captured one of the werewolves but also conducted a thorough interrogation before putting the creature out of its misery. [[Eravien Haund]] (LN male [[Half-Elf]] noble) imparts the following information to fellow Lords' Alliance members and tells them not to share it: 
• The werewolf pack has almost a dozen members. The leader of the pack is a man named Kiril. 
• The werewolves come from a distant land called [[Barovia]]. The Lords' Alliance has no information about it. 
• The werewolves worship a deity called [[Worlds/Barovia/NPCs/Mother Night]]. 
• The werewolves leave and return to [[Barovia]] through some kind of ancient portal. 
(This is a deduction on Eravien's part, based on the werewolf prisoner's vague description of how the pack gets to and from [[Barovia]].) 
Eravien believes that he can gain prestige within the Lords' Alliance if he learns the whereabouts of the "ancient portal" that the werewolves are using and destroys it. He is convinced that the portal represents a danger not only to [[Daggerford]] but also to [[Waterdeep 1]]. Any Lords' Alliance character who agrees to destroy it is given a [[Campaign Resources/Equipment/Items/Magic Items/Spell Scroll]] of [[Magic Weapon]]. Eravien also promises to furnish the character with a letter of recommendation (see "Marks of Prestige" in chapter 7 of the Dungeon Master's Guide) once the portal is destroyed. About the Lords' Alliance. The Lords' Alliance is a coalition of political powers concerned with their mutual security and prosperity. Heading the coalition are rulers in the North and along the Sword Coast. Although alliance members have pledged to join forces against common threats, every lord in it places the fate and fortune of his or her settlement above all others. Agents of the alliance are chosen primarily for their loyalty, and are trained in observation, stealth, innuendo, and combat. Backed by the wealthy, they carry well-made equipment (often disguised to appear common). Alliance operatives are often glory hounds. 

### [[Zhentarim]] 
The [[Black Network]] sees the werewolf menace as an opportunity to provide lords and nervous landowners with mercenaries to protect their holdings. But at least one of your fellow members has a grudge against the lycanthropes. [[Davra Jassur]], a member of the [[Zhentarim]] based in [[Waterdeep 1]], arranges a private meeting with you. [[Davra Jassur]] (LE female [[Human]] assassin) poses as a recruiter for the [[Black Network]] but is, in fact, a cutthroat who quietly disposes of competitors. Her husband, [[Yarak]], was also a member of the [[Black Network]]. He was escorting a caravan traveling from [[Daggerford]] to the Way Inn (about sixty miles southeast of [[Daggerford]], along the [[Trade Way]]) when the werewolves attacked. [[Yarak]] was slain, and [[Davra]] wants revenge; she wants the head of the werewolf pack leader. She is too tied up with "business" to engage in a personal vendetta, but if another member of the [[Black Network]] were to help, she would owe that individual a special favour (see "Marks of Prestige" in chapter 7 of the Dungeon Master's Guide). About the [[Zhentarim]]. The [[Zhentarim]] is an unscrupulous shadow network that seeks to expand its influence throughout the Forgotten Realms. The public face of the [[Black Network]] appears relatively benign. It offers the best and cheapest goods and services, both legal and illicit, hoping to undercut its competitors. Members of the [[Zhentarim]] think of themselves as members of an extended family and rely on it for resources and security. At the same time, members are granted the autonomy to increase their own wealth and influence. As a whole, the [[Zhentarim]] promises "the best for the best," although in truth the organization is more interested in spreading its own propaganda and influence than investing in the improvement of its members. 

## Welcome to [[Barovia]] 
Strahd is using the werewolves to lure adventurers to his domain. Characters can follow the werewolves' tracks into the [[Misty Forest]]. After hours of fruitless searching, the characters are engulfed by thick fog: The woods darken as the trees begin to close ranks, their needle-covered arms interlocking to blot out the sun. The shroud of mist that covers the ground turns into creeping walls of grey fog that silently envelop you until you can't see more than a few feet in any direction. Soon, even the werewolf tracks disappear. No matter which direction they go, the characters come to a lonely dirt road that cuts through the woods, leading to area A (see chapter 2). As an alternative, you can have them enter [[Barovia]] near [[Krezk]] (see chapter 8). 

## CREEPING FOG 
This scenario assumes that the characters are camping in a forest when the fog engulfs them. They are quietly borne to the edge of [[Barovia]]. The woods are quiet this night, and the air grows chill. Your fire sputters as a low mist gathers around the edges of your camp, growing closer as the night wears on. By morning, the fog hangs thick in the air, turning the trees around you into grey ghosts. Then you notice these aren't the same trees that surrounded you the night before. No matter which direction they go, the characters come ·. to a lonely dirt road that cuts through the woods, leading to area A (see chapter 2). As an alternative, you can have them enter [[Barovia]] near [[Krezk]] (see chapter 8).

# Their Goalss

Lvl 03 - Start
Lvl 04 - Defeat [[Lord Wacther]]
Lvl 05 - Find the [[Tome of Strahd]]
Lvl 06 - Find the [[Sunsword]]
Lvl 07 - Find the [[Holy Symbol of Ravenkind]]
Lvl 08 - Defeat the Hags in the [[Old Bonegrinder]]
Lvl 09 - Light the beacon of [[Argynvostholt]]
Lvl 10 - Thwart [[Druid]] ritual on [[Yester Hill]]
Lvl 11 - Defeat [[Baba Lysaga]]
Lvl 12 - Return the bones to [[St Andrals Church]]
Lvl 13 - Explore [[Amber Temple]] and encounter the lich
Lvl 14 - Defeat [[Strahd von Zarovich 1 1]]

### Strahd's Enemies
- [[Rudolph Van Richten]]
- [[Zuleika Toranescu]]
- [[Mad Mage (Mordenkainen)]]
- [[Donavich]]
- [[Victor Vallakovich]]
- [[Stella Wachter]]
- [[Kasimir Velikov]]
- Sir [[Godfrey Gwilym]]
- Sir [[Klutz]]
- [[Ismark Kolyanovich]]
- [[Nikolai Wachter]]
- [[Arrigal]]
- [[Parriwimple]]
- [[Ireena Kolyana]]
- [[Pidlwick II]]
- [[Clovin Belview]]
- [[Ezmerelda d'Avenir]]
- [[Davian Martikov]]
- [[Arabelle]]
- [[Vasilka]]

# **AREAS BY LEVEL**

|                |                        |             |
|----------------|------------------------|-------------|
| **Avg. Level** | **Area**               | **Chapter** |
| 1st-3rd        | Village of Barovia     | 3           |
| 4th            | Town of Vallaki        | 5           |
| 4th            | Old Bonegrinder        | 6           |
| 5th            | Village of Krezk       | 8           |
| 5th            | Wizard of Wines Winery | 12          |
| 6th            | Van Richten's Tower    | 11          |
| 6th            | Yester Hill            | 14          |
| 7th            | Argynvostholt          | 7           |
| 7th            | Werewolf Den           | 15          |
| 8th            | Tsolenka Pass          | 9           |
| 8th            | The Ruins of Berez     | 10          |
| 9th            | Castle Ravenloft       | 4           |
| 9th            | The Amber Temple       | 13          |

## [[Svalich Woods]] (Area C):

On Foot: Find the body of [[Dalvan Olensky]] who was carrying a note ([[Kolyan Indirovich's Letter (Version 1)]]) when he is killed by dire wolves.
If the characters linger in the woods, an encounter with wolves becomes increasingly likely.  
 
## [[Barovia]] (Area E): Average Level 1-3

Meet [[Ismark Kolyanovich]] in the [[Blood of the Vine Tavern]], get introduced to his family and their plight ([[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]])  
(Alternatively, players might encounter [[Ireena Kolyana]] first if they head straight to the Burgomaster's House.
Must attend funeral of [[Kolyan Indirovich]] to proceed, introduces them to Father [[Donavich]] and his plight, his Son, [[Doru]] is a vampire trapped in basement.
 
**Side Quest:** Meet [[Mad Mary]] and learn about her daughter [[Gertruda]] who has been missing for a week
**Side Quest:** [[Morgantha]] (a disguised night hag) is knocking on doors selling [[Campaign Resources/Magic/Spells/Dream]] pastries. If tailed, she tries to collect payment in the form of a kid.
**Side Quest:** Every night at midnight, one hundred spirits rise from the cemetery and march up the [[Old Svalich Road]] to [[Castle Ravenloft]].

##  Stores:

[[Blood of the Vine Tavern]]  
[[Bildrath's Mercantile]]
 
## Dungeons: 

[[Death House]]
 

## Jokes
Why were the PCs always getting lost in Castle Ravenloft?  
The dead ends.

Did you hear that [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] has started writing poems dedicated to Tatyana?  
He went from bat to verse.

What’s [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]’s favorite artifact?  
The neck of Vecna.

What should the PCs never say when answering [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]’s invitation?  
Bite me!

Why does Count [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] have Wizard levels?  
He’s a neck-romancer.

Why are there no mosquitoes in Barovia?  
[[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] eliminated the competition.

Why did Strahd join the Creative Commons?  
He likes his artists open range.

What happened when the PCs ran from Strahd and he gave chase?  
They finished neck and neck!

Why doesn’t Strahd go on adventures?  
He sucks the life out of the party.

Why didn’t the players enjoy the Castle Ravenloft campaign?  
Strahd was a real pain in the neck!

Why was everyone upset about the 10 Greatest D&D Villains list released by Wizards of the Coast?  
They forgot to count Strahd!

How do you beat Strahd at poker?  
Raise the stakes!

Did you know that Strahd and Auril had a love child? Unfortunately, the baby suffered from a serious congenital condition…  
A severe case of frostbite.

Why doesn’t Strahd incorporate Ravenloft?  
He’s not a big fan of stakeholders.

Why doesn’t Count Strahd ever go to therapy?  
He’s bad at self-reflection.

After you’ve killed Count Strahd, where do you go to loot his gold?  
The blood bank.

Why did Strahd need a _cure disease_ spell?  
He couldn’t stop coffin.

What should the bard play while you’re fighting Count Strahd?  
Another One Bites the Dust.

Did you hear about Strahd and [[Tatyana Ivanova|Tatyana]]?  
He loved in vein.

Why does Strahd always fail his Dexterity (Stealth) check?  
He can’t stop coffin.

Why did Strahd want to kill the PCs?  
They drove him batty.

Why did Count Strahd have to move out of Castle Ravenloft for a month?  
It was getting re-vamp-ed!

What spell does Count Strahd use to control the drawbridge on Castle Ravenloft?  
_Re-moat control_.

Why can Strahd never take a joke?  
He’s pun-dead.
 

## [[Vallaki]] (Area N): Average Level 4

 

## [[Old Bonegrinder]] (Area O): Average Level 4

 

## [[Argynvostholt]] (Area Q): Average Level 7

 

## [[Krezk]] (Area S): Average Level 5

 

## The [[Abbey of Saint Markovia]] (Area S):

 

## [[Tsolenka Pass]] (Area T):

 

## Ruins of [[Berez]] (Area U):

 

## Van Richten's Tower (Area V): Average Level 6

 

## Wizard of the Wines (Area W): Average Level 5

 

## [[Amber Temple]] (Area X): Average Level 9

 

## [[Yester Hill]] (Area Y): Average Level 6

Home to a [[Gulthias Tree]]. Druids have one of the stolen gems from the Wizards of Wine Winery, and are trying to bring a giant tree [[Blight]] to life.
Meet arcanaloth in the statue head (area x5)
Meet [[Vilnius]] in area X9, who might warn them of the Amber Golem
 
 **Special Event:** [[Rahadin]] is at the temple, praying to the god of secrets to un-curse Strahd
**Special Event:** [[Kasimir Velikov]] might be with the characters, and could receive a dark gift to help revive his sister in [[Castle Ravenloft]]
 
 
 # **About this Adventure: [[Death House]]**

You can run **Curse of Strahd** for 1st-level characters with the help of this optional mini-adventure, which is designed to advance characters to 3rd level.
 
Before the characters can explore the haunted townhouse known as **[[Death House]]**, you need to guide them to the [[Village of Barovia]]. The “Creeping Fog” adventure hook in chapter 1 (see [[Introduction]]) works best, as it introduces few distractions. Once the characters arrive in Strahd’s domain, steer them to the village. For the duration of this introductory adventure, any attempt by the characters to explore other locations in Strahd’s domain causes the mists of Ravenloft to block their path. 

# **A Classic Retold**

Curse of Strahd is a retelling of the original Ravenloft adventure, which was published in 1983 by TSR, Inc. In the years since, the original has gained a reputation as one of the greatest Dungeons & Dragons adventures ever, and it went on to inspire the creation of a campaign setting of the same name in 1990: Ravenloft, home of the Domains of Dread.
 
Module I6: Ravenloft, written by Tracy and Laura Hickman, broke new ground by presenting a D&D adventure that was as much story-driven as location- based, featuring a villain who was complex and terrifying. [[Castle Ravenloft]], with its amazing three-dimensional maps, remains to this day one of the most iconic and memorable of all D&D dungeons.
 
This preview introduces characters to the land of [[Barovia]]. The Curse of Strahd book includes the original adventure, as well as expanded material developed in consultation with Tracy and Laura Hickman. It expands what we know about the lands around [[Castle Ravenloft]] and sheds new light on the dark past of the castle’s lord. The lands of [[Barovia]] are from a forgotten world in the D&D multiverse, and this adventure gives glimpses into that world. In time, cursed [[Barovia]] was torn from its home world by the [[Dark Powers]] and bound in mist as one of the Domains of Dread in the Shadowfell.

In the event that begins the adventure, the fates of Strahd and the adventurers are entwined as the characters are invited or forced into his domain. Different ways to get the adventurers to [[Barovia]] are described in the sections that follow. Use whichever one you favor.

The Curse of Strahd adventure contains additional [[Adventure Hooks]].

But for the purpose of this introductory adventure, you can use “**Creeping Fog**,” in which the characters are traveling a lonely road through the woods when the fog engulfs them, spiriting them away to the land of [[Barovia]].

# **Creeping Fog Adventure Hook:** 

 
This scenario assumes that the characters are camping in a forest when the fog engulfs them. They are quietly borne to the edge of [[Barovia]].
 

<table><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><blockquote><p>The woods are quiet this night, and the air grows chill. Your fire sputters as a low mist gathers around the edges of your camp, growing closer as the night wears on. By morning, the fog hangs thick in the air, turning the trees around you into gray ghosts. Then you notice these aren’t the same trees that surrounded you the night before.</p></blockquote></td></tr></tbody></table>

 
No matter which direction they go, the characters come to a lonely dirt road that cuts through the woods, leading to just outside the village of [[Barovia]]

# **Mists of Ravenloft**

A deadly fog surrounds the land of [[Barovia]] and engulfs any creature that tries to leave. Even flying creatures are subject to the fog's effects, which are as follows:

-   A creature that starts its turn in the fog must succeed on a **DC 20 Constitution** saving throw or gain one level of exhaustion. This exhaustion can't be removed while the creature is in the fog.

-   No matter how far a creature travels in the fog, or in which direction it goes, it gets turned around so that it eventually finds itself back in [[Barovia]].

 -   The area within the fog is heavily obscured

