# Session notes

## Sesh 0 - 24/11

## Sesh 1 - 30/11

We are given a letter by the mayor [[Kolyan Indirovich]](Burgomaster) who’s a former soldier to save his wife from a mysterious ailment. We enter via a wooden cart surrounded by mist. There’s dark whispers, sometimes heard sometimes not. Farwyn is the one who knows this Burgomaster. 

Fog is hella thicc. No soldiers, except 2 statues of mossy, sed broken warriors. *we have 40 days ration, 1 cart, 1 horse *

Wayhand went off the cart and looked around the statues. He’s investigating it for traps. Someone opened the gate, though we saw no one, Mayari hollered a thank you. Raleigh went to the guardhouse. The whole place looked like it was left way long ago. [[Campaign Resources/Equipment/Weapons/Weapons]], armours are all rusted. Cobwebs filled the place.

The mist is dense and heavy and seems to be touching people. There’s howling as we go. [[Wolf]] howls coming from the North. As we travel down the road, our horse neighs. A figure shines of stained glass looks at Mayari and says,”Daughter of Bahskara, it’s too late to save this land. Turn back.” It then dimmed. Wolves sounds get closer.

We ran, Wayhand tugging the horse on. Farwyn lit up the reins. We finally reached Zopol after 5 hours. Farwyn knows it’s the start of civilisation. It’s a farming settlement with a few houses. We decided to camp outside someone’s house. 

On Wayhand’s watch, 3 dark cloaked people approached him, asking what we are doing here. He said we come in peace and said we’re here to find a relative and from outside. The person’s not convinced. Mayari wakes up and reiterates what Wayhand said and shows her signet. They say this is interesting and their Master will be interested in this. Then they went away. 

Farwyn woke up just in time to recognise one of them to be Vrazimil Bu, the Master of Guards for Strahd. We continue our rest, then wake up the next morning. People who looked at us seemed to be afraid of us, though no one approached us. We chose to walk down the road after some discussion.  

We stopped to talk to a farmer. He seemed to be very afraid. Farwyn says that the people are acting a bit strange. We moved to [[Barovia]], where the muddy path changed to cobblestones. The mist has mostly thinned out. Asked Farwyn why we came at night time, he said he just likes nighttime. 

No one’s in the town, we make our way to the tavern - The Blood of the Vine. The sign is hanging on 1 chain. 5 people in the tavern were huddled over the fireplace, except for 1 at the corner. 1 barkeep. 1 person walked towards the person who was at the corner, looking at us as we walked. Even the barkeep seemed like he’s sussing us. Raleigh and Wayhand immediately go towards the pudgy barkeep, asking for ale. He’s asking for money first before the drink. Raleigh paid for Wayhand’s. He sniffs the money before putting it into the slips of his dirty clothes. He gave the mugs and says, “Don’t do any trouble.” Raleigh asked for Kolyan. Barkeep says man on corner is Ismarc, the son of Kolyan.

Wayhand introduces himself to Ismarc and grabs the summons to Ismarc from Farwyn’s bag. Ismarc asks for our credentials. Raleigh says he can cleave stuff. Wayhand shows off his boxing skills. He asked for Mayari’s credentials. Said she’s a knight of the order of Bhaskara. Ismarc looks at Farwyn and says he’s glad to have him here. The companion says they need to be bodyguards instead of uh protecting his sister from evil.

Mayari excused himself, went to the toilet and casted Detect Good and Evil. An undead is on the upper floor.

He said his father died from an attack by the master of the guards. Turns out the letter is fake. But someone is trying to get us into this. Ismarc wants us to help escort his sister out of [[Barovia]]. He laid out plans whether to go via boats or through the mountains. He also invites us to stay at the manor for the night, claiming the land is dangerous at night and ignored Wayhand’s offer of ale. 

## Sesh 2 - 07/12

Farwyn decided to break away from the party. RIP Farwyn, forever in our hearts. Vasili is the undead, appearing as a normal, young [[Human]] male. He gave Wayhand 1 platinum, as Wayhand asked if he ordered beer. Wayhand bought 4 beers to be able to gain access to the undead’s room. Guy closed the book on his table. Leather, metal emboss, metal clasp, metal [[Raven]]-like creature symbol on top of it, probs part of emblem. Asked if he’s a scholar, he says he’s just doing a diary of his adventures. He’s a seasoned traveller, and asked if he could show us around. He’s reluctant but opens up to the idea. He tells his story. His dad is [[Robert Von Holz]], a lord, who has a vineyard. [[Kirkondorf]] is the place where it’s located. Strangers are rare, he says. Haven’t seen in years. He says the mist is dangerous, because it’ll choke them (especially out of the valley). Wayhand and Raleigh told him about their life story, though Wayhand’s more interesting to him. 

He even offered to accompany the team to [[Vallaki]]. Raleigh asks him to shake the illusion off to prove his sincerity. He shows that he has a huge scar on his face and is insecure about it. Says he’s wounded in a battle years ago against bandits. Asked a [[Vistani]] (nomads) wise woman to make an amulet to alter his face. They treat him like their own. He likes to travel. He’s an aspiring cartographer. He’s at [[Barovia]] for the first time. He shows them a map he’s working on. He offers to take them to [[Tser Falls]] to visit the Vistanis.

We’re going shopping. Yay! Things are hella expensive. Mayari asked if Vasili heard about the assassination. He said no. He said we should be worried about Vrazimil if we’re on the wrong side of the law. We took a long rest and at 4am, Ismarc came to the tavern bloodied and almost dead. Aurelis healed it. Manor is on fire, he asked us to help save his sister. Barkeep takes him in.

Manor has lotsa creatures, guards trying to fend off. First hall, statue knights. Wayhand and Raleigh immediately went into a skirmish against a humanoid creature. Mayari chose to find a guard not in a fight. They were wary at first but when she explained, are taking her into another room.It turns out Vrazimil is in the room. The guard yells “Lady [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]].” Vrazimil bites [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] on the neck.


## Sesh 3 - 15/12

Vampires have left. Lady [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] is injured. Is woozy, speaking gibberish. Wrelen joins us. Mansion is still burning and Mayari carries [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] out of the mansion. Vasili came to us and tried to help. He asked who the lady is- who’s turning paler by the moment. He asked if we knew who attacked us. Told him it was Vrazimil. He asked if we attacked him. Mayari said she did. Aurelis suggested we take her to a church. Vasili wants us out of this place because the vampires will come back. We got 2 guards with us. The rest all went away. 

We're about to separate. 


Wayhand + Raleigh go with Vasili to prepare the boats. Mayari, Wrelen +Aurelis going to the church to try and get Ireena unturn.

People keep standing outside but the auto turns away when we look back at them. No one’s trying to help with the fire. Church is run down, with things missing and in disrepair. A tall man with clerical robes and blazing sun on the robe. Younger man behind him. He opens the door, it’s covered with claw marks and burns. 

He said he can’t help her. But asked us to try. Mayari puts Ireena on the altar and asks Aurelis to try as the man offers assistance to heal injuries. He prayed but the prayers seemed to not work. As his prayer ends, she wakes up. The key in Wrelen’s neck floats and glows as the prayer goes. We all hear evil laughter in our minds and our connection to our deities server. Father Donovich took off his ring with a blazing sun signet and gave it to us, asking us to search for Sons of the [[Morninglord]]. We need to leave. He said to Wrelen to find the Sons of the [[Morninglord]] to find more info.

We arrived at the [[Vistani]]’s camp. A man, who gave the letter to Farwyn. He recognises Vasili.He also asks us to join them at the fire. Wayhand tries to flirt with Eliza. Aurelis tries to know about the food they’re cooking. They don’t wanna share the fam recipe.

A woman screams and runs, jumping into Vasili’s arms. He spins her around and puts her on the ground. She cries on his shoulder and they go to a private part of the map. [[Arrigal]] looks at Mayari and gestures towards the caravan with the door opened and says, “She’s waiting for you.”

Wrelen asks for a carrot. Aurelis got a taste of the fam recipe. 20 gold, he says. For this fam recipe. Wrelen goes to the horses, asking for something. The horses ate the carrot. Raleigh goes for the kids, seeing one of them bullying another with a wooden sword. He takes a handaxe to the bullied kid and says to defend themselves. The kid ran away screaming. The other said to Raleigh that he’s a weird cat guy

Mayari confronts [[Arrigal]] about the fake letter. He says we’re their last hope, hopes he would be forgiven and goes to the campfire. Ireena and the guards follow. He picks a lute and strum a sing. 

Mayari went to the caravan and was about to knock on the door but it opened before she could. [[Madam Eva]]. She has a white dragon on her shoulder and asks Mayari to come in and sit. Mayari instead just politely stands at one of the chairs. [[Madam Eva]] shuffles a tarot deck. She asks for the paladin to glimpse into the future. Mayari says what use of it if she can’t change it. She puts 5 cards in front as Mayari sits and asks her to pick. Mayari took the card 2nd from the right. It’s a card called the Beast. She slides it across the table, till the middle and puts another row of 5. The beast i[[Campaign Resources/Magic/Spells/Symbol|s a sy]]mbol of the conflict you’ll face, she said and added, are you brave enough to choose again? 2nd card is from the middle. Innocent. People to protect and show the best of us.She slides it to the right bottom. 3rd card is 1st from the left. The Paladin. A sleeping prince, servant of light and brother of darkness. Our saviour and weapon. 4th card is 1st from the right.The Priest. The Sons of [[Morninglord]]. They’re hoping for the sun to rise from West. Doesn’t know if they’ll help or hinder. 5th card is 2nd from the left. She takes it and doesn’t show it to Mayari.

She then says it’s probs better to not know all of the future but offers a glimpse of the past via the orb. Shows the Valley of [[Barovia]], green and prosperous. No mist, people seem to be happy, cheering as a small column of soldiers march. A tall, handsome man is on the front, riding a black horse. 

“Those with glory and stand tall are the ones who fall furthest of all”

She looks smaller and blesses Mayari, then hobbles over to the campfire.

[[Arrigal]] runes his lute again and sings a story about a mighty wizard who came to the land about a year ago. He was charismatic and thought he could rally people of [[Barovia]] against Strahd. He led them to a suicidal mission to Ravenloft. They were all massacred, the wizard thrown to the cliffs, though they believed he’s still alive. They say the [[River Ivlis]] bore his body away, though none has managed to track him down. He says he’s been there. [[[[Madam Eva]]|[[Madam E]]va]] whispers saying the devil has been ruling for more than 300 years. [[Arrigal]] says he has a confession to make. He says,”I have tricked you into entering the land because he needed our help. If my friend the burgomaster is still alive, we hoped he’d led the rebellion.” 

Wayhand slams his hand and say,”Rebellion isn’t for one man, we all are with the rebellion.” When Mayari asked about it he shirks away and cries, only to have Eliza pat his shoulder.

[[Arrigal]] says they need brave adventurers. If you choose to not help us we don’t mind. Wayhand immediately says he will help. He wants to stay on [[Arrigal]]’s lap. Says we’ll be rewarded for our help. The whole team agrees, each with diff reasons. Mostly for rewards. They would offer rations for 10 days for each peep, a caravan with 2 horses, and their colourful clothes for protection. [[Madam Eva]] says Ireena is cursed by the [[Dark Powers]]. She doesn’t know how she could change that. But says that Starhd wants her. Wrelen asks [[Madam Eva]] how long before she turns. A week. Apparently there’s dwarven vampires. Strahd has cursed the land because of the sins of Barovian ancestors. He sleeps in a coffin during the day, and can change into bats, mists. Summons bats, wolves, etc. Running water hurts him, sunlight hurts him. Anyone trying to leave will choke on the fog (duh) Every now and then adventurers will come to the land but not many survive. 

[[Vallaki]] is a rebel town. [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich]] is the burgomaster. Wine is the main thing consumed, it is very expensive but people will pay for it. Lots. Strahd has many consorts, turning them into vampires themselves. He named the land after his father. The [[Vistani]] believes being hopeful repels the devil.

Astrid and Bohetious the horses pull us. Vistali says he needs to do another mission. Wayhand says we’ll meet again, hopefully at his hometown. We all say our goodbyes. We get near the forest. Wayhand saw a game trail and steered towards it. Wrelen notices a lot of wolf prints on the game trail. Wrelen tries to detect wolves, though he doesn’t locate any for 5 miles. Arrows launched and attacked our horses. We see werewolves. They want 200 gold we don't have. We bargain and he wants a thing from Blinsky’s toys. They want a doll with straw hair and a blue dress and bring it back to him. He says if we dont bring it back he will remember. The DM got bored and time skipped and we got to [[Vallaki]] around midnight. SESSION END 

(sorry just wanted to fill in the holes for you) (highly appreciated dw) ( :) )


## Sesh 4 - 21/12

Go to the city and get stopped by the [[Guard]]. They asked who we were and we said we were traders. They asked where we were from the coast??? We also forgot who the vastani was…. We were asked what we were trading and we said we were purchasing goods and we got sussed out and questioned. We are met by the captain Issac we had a real good conversation with the captain he asked who we were and we have decided we are the Big Black Cow trading (its cannon) or BBC (also cannon) we are not a registered trading company and but are waiting to get registered and have to Valiki for the merchants guilds. He asked to search and we said apparently our stuff got stolen by the guards so please don't search us. We also mentioned the dead horse which deterred the search. We were let off and told that the inn is closed and if we want we can stay but we chose to sleep a little ways away. In order to get a merchant we should talk to Lady Wokter, someone in close with the merchant guild.

[[Mo]] goes for a walk and sees St [[Andral]]’s Church classic church stained glass and cracked masonry. [[Blue Water Inn]] is a 2 story building with slanted roof with crows. The burgomaster master house and some other noble houses are seen.

We talk with Gadof and ask about the doll. He is a greedy man and is willing to get the doll for 16 gold. Blinsky mentions  Fritz has stolen a small clockwork man from Blinsky. He is asking us to go on a mission to retrieve the man as it was his greatest work. Deal has been made (Free doll and name of person who purchased the doll we need to give werewolves). Clockwork man is believed to be in the burgomeister's house.

We go to the butcher in the morning and sell the dead horse for 1 WHOLE SILVER (pog) and head towards the church. A man is handing out posters and calling for a festival. There is a gathering of some knights and armoured men who are listening to a sermon by a noble lady (preacher)and break up after a call for “all hail the morning lord”,

COME ONE, COME ALL, 

to the greatest celebration of the year: 

THE [[Festival of the Blazing Sun]]! 

Attendance and children required. 

Rain or shine.

ALL WILL BE WELL! 

-The Baron- (THE POSTER)

Wrelen walks up to the preacher woman and says they are instead in the festival. The priest  (Father lucian)says they will be celebrating the blazing sun. and some random propaganda about the sun lord or whatever. It will be held on Sunday (its friday today). [[Thierry]] shows the ring given by donovich and he is shocked and is asked for a private audience. He relayed that the Borovian priest was okay and he sent him here. [[Thierry]] mentions the rings pulling towards the cleric's friend (Aurelis). The priest is very shocked in a good way and akses up to come to a private meeting on Sunday night so they can talk properly. As they leave the noble [[Fiona Wachter]] says she can help us with anything we need.

We’ve been thrown in the dungeons. Were killing the burgermeister for fiona. Made a deal to do it tonight (friday)

Friday Morning (Caught)

Friday Night (Fiona visits cell)


## Sesh 5 - 28/12

Woke up from a trance and saw the change in scenery and lack of weapons on self. Asks Wrelen what happened and asks about Ireena. Said what happened and she’s at the next cell. Found out that she’s going to be executed as well. Wrelen also told us this lady Fiona who’s interested in Aurelis asking them for dinner and gave a deal to them. We discussed jailbreak plans.

Wrelen heard a raven croak near the prison window. He walks towards it, drops a letter containing a key. “Do not trust [[Fiona Wachter]]”. No guards patrolled recently. It’s Friday midnight. Wrelen snuffed the torches and we went out in the dark. Going out to get our equipment, while snuffing every torch out. Raleigh is taking all the torches as they go. As we were about to open the door to the guard house, we heard an explosion. Raleigh opens the room. There are two guards with their backs towards us. Turns out their throats had been slit. We took back our equipment and some. Raleigh sniffed their ale and found it didn't smell poisoned.Mayari prayed for their souls. Wrelen wants to find rats. No rat, m8.

We went back to Ireena. She’s still catatonic. As we reach upwards, we see signs of combat and hear more explosions. We decided to rob the burgomeister's house to get the doll and some vehicle (horse and cart). Turns out the dungeon is under the burgomeister’s mansion. We hear clashing, people fighting. It seems to be focused on the exits and entrance of the mansion. Wrelen remembered there’s scorch marks on the roof. Mayari uses Divine Sense. 60ft of our vicinity is Hallowed Ground.

The floor is well lit. We decided to go to the burgomeister’s master bedroom. Wrelen hears a weird laugh coming from it. He thinks it sounded like Wayhand. He informs the team that Wayhand is talking to the burgomeister. The voice calls out to Baron Vargas Vallakovic mocking him saying he’s causing her to die, to just kill himself, etc.The voice then goes on, asking the burgomeister to jump. Mayari pushes the door slightly, the Baron is praying and the voice is still cackling. The door is opened up fully. The room is dusty. Right hand wall, we see a small creature made of metal, hand and legs wooden. Jester-costume. “Look, an audience - more reason for you to jump.” Glass doors are opened, Baron is standing on the balcony, gripping the railing. He’s chanting prayers.

Mayari rushed over. He jumped. She held onto his leg. He wants to die. Mayari said he shouldn’t. Wrelen helped him up.

The doll asks Mayari to drop the Baron and introduces himself as [[Pidlwick]] when Raleigh asks him about it. Is a jester. Raleigh readies his action. [[Pidlwick]] asks if Raleigh wants to hear a joke. He says yeah. The doll leans and says, “Why don’t you cut off the old man’s head?” He said no. It says he’s no fun. When it starts to prance, Raleigh stops him. He’s investigating the room for signs of struggles. No signs of struggle. No signs of things happening. There’s a desk cluttered, and the bed hadn’t been slept in. On it are trader notes. He shows signs of paranoia and believes Strahd is going to destroy [[Vallaki]].

Mayari patted the Baron, and asked who he is. He broke down and says ‘I’ve failed her.’ 

We asked [[Pidlwick]] about it. Said he killed his own wife. Raleigh asked if it made him kill her. It said no and asks if Raleigh wanted to hear another joke. [[Pidlwick]] is hung from the balcony and it says if Raleigh kills him they won’t be able to find out how the Baron kills his wife. Mayari was given [[Pidlwick]] to tied up. Mayari brings the Baron to his bed and asks him to sleep. Raleigh knocked him out because the guy cannot sleep out of misery.


They loot.

200gp 100gp x gemstones (10 Gemstones) 4 x Spell Scrolls 2 x Potions of Healing

-   Sapping Sting, [[Dancing Lights]], [[Campaign Resources/Magic/Spells/Dissonant Whispers]], [[Guidance]]
    

There’s 3 doors in the room. The sounds of clashing are still ongoing, tho the explosions are less frequent. Mayari looks outside and can’t see shet because it’s dark af. Everyone’s looking up to see if there’s vampires...or something. We hear whooshing and someone casting fireballs. It lights up a witch on a broom. It hurls one of the buildings in the town and it burns. She then zoomed away. [[Pidlwick]] cackles and says knock, knock. When asked he answered death.

We locked the glassdoor. We read his notes. Baron’s saying Lady Fiona is gathering the sons to cast him off. He listed the main castle and names of the knights. He says they plot against him. We carry the Baron and [[Pidlwick]] through a different door. The room is pink and embroidered. Cute floral designs…in pink. Cutesy rugs, cutesy walls. Scattered throughout the bedroom are shelves of dolls. We’re looking for the straw doll. We found the doll. 16 dolls resemble Ireena.

Wrelen offers [[Pidlwick]] to be part of the team. He wants a joke. Wrelen tells him a joke, he says he’d be with the team as long as it’s funny. 

WE LEVEL UP

## Sesh 6 - 04/01

Mayari asks Wayhand to help her with the burgomeister, which he helps her with. Wayhand asks if we really don’t want to trust Fiona. Wrelen said yeah. It’s decided we would still take the cart and horse to bolt through the battlefield.


We leave the room, making our way down. More soldiers are running through without noticing us or the burgomeister. Lots of soldiers and fighting in every main hallway. We decide to go down the path with the least fighting and go through the servants’ quarters. The servants are cowering and praying. They did not seem to notice us.We find the horses, there seems to be no one guarding the stables. We take two horses, load the people we need to load.Up to the priest’s place. We don’t seem to see who or where the enemies are yet…

The church is boarded up. Small parties of soldiers run past us once in a while. The door is barred. Mayari knocks. Shouting comes out from the church asking who’s there. Wrelen knows it as the same priest from before, Father Lucian. He introduces himself and tells us we have the burgomeister with us. Vallakian is in the church, he pulls us in and barred the door again. Pillars have been destroyed. Wrelen tells the priest what has happened and he’s like - ok. But also they aren’t the one who gave us the key. We decided to keep the church safe till dawn.

He said he needs to tell us something in private. They’ve lost an important artefact of the church. The Bones of St. [[Andral]] have protected the town and church for centuries, he said. No one knew who took it away. He said it’s probably too late. Because Strahd can enter the town now without the Bones. Wayhand is asking if he has any suspects. He says it’s probably Lady Fiona. Wayhand asked if he knows where she lives. He said it’s down the street. [[Pidlwick]]’s like, “can we kill someone for funsies” Wayhand is “wanna hear a joke?” He goes and did a joke. Raleigh’s like “can I pls take 1d4 damage” 

[[Pidlwick]] makes a joke…because he saw a vampire. Mayari takes her warhammer out and we see a vampire. 8 villagers goes behind the vampire, Father Lucian saying he doesn't understand. The vampire spawn says politely that we should give away Ireena and the burgomeister. He wants to kill the Baron and Ireena for the bride. 3rd…bride.

Vampire spawn's name is Rael Hanali. 

[[Pidlwick]] is a bard.

Father Lucian apologises and says he didn't know that he was sheltering traitors. Mayari said it's alright, he didn't know. [[Pidlwick]] is dancing happily, celebrating his victory. 

Loot. 

Flute

1lbs exotic spice 

1lbs silver bar

9 bottles of common wine - 8 bottles of Purple Grapemash No. 3, 1 bottle of Champagne du le Stomp 

A collection of popular bard's tale

A [[Campaign Resources/Equipment/Items/Magic Items/Spell Scroll]] - [[Vampiric Touch]]

5gp

Father Lucian said the church is compromised and where should we hide the burgomeister. He proposed we go to the Abbey of [[Krezk]]. He says the other demons under Strahd are more powerful than Rael. We decide to go to Fiona's to get the Bones back. Or at least try to. The whole city seems to be on the verge of collapse. 

There's only 2 guards at the mansion. We sneak into the mansion. We hear angry muttering and shovelling. We tried to peek and see. We saw a youth around 17,shovelling dirt into a hole that almost looks like a grave. We are in the crypt of the family. 

Wrelen extinguishes the guy's lantern. The kid curses. Then he strikes a flint. Wayhand sprints at the boy. He grapples him and puts his hand on the boy's mouth. 

Basically the boy is burying bones. Wrelen probes the boy's head and the kid is so sad and sure he's going to die. He's trying to call for help. He's burying the cook's pet. A cat that died recently. 

He says there's around 35-40 people in the house. Then Wayhand knocks the kid out cold. We dig the grave. The sun comes up. It's a bag of cat bones. We take it. 

We detect a school of magic from one of the crypts. Abjuration. Mayari uses Divine Sense. Detected an undead within 30ft. From behind one of the crypts come one person. 

He says, "That's far enough."

"I don't know who you are but turn back."

He's Lord Wachter. He is saying that Fiona is not his daughter. He's in cahoots with Lord Strahd. He owes him a debt. He wants us to go away. He's a bit angry that Mayari suggested that he doesn't care about the Wachter name. 

Mayari asks if not Fiona that controls the Wachter, who does? Says they reply to a power stronger than Strahd. Doesn’t reply when asked if it’s the [[Morninglord]].  
  
WE WON AGAINST LORD WACTER. Mr. DM was nice and gave us 2 inspirations. Loot will be given in discord. 

## Sesh 7 - 10/01

No Notes

## Sesh 8 - 18/01

It is dawn.As we climb out, we hear cheering. Conflict seems to have stopped. “It’s over. Lord Strahd is here.” We arrived at the church and gave the bones to Father Lucian. He led us to the crypt lined with sarcophagi. He puts the [[Human]] bones into it. The bones glow,with the runes. He                                                                                    says that he’d need to consult with the other. He wants us to go to [[Krezk]] and try to get us to the ancient stronghold of the Holy Order. He also gave Wrelen a piece of paper to confirm our identity. It’s on a tower South beyond Voleta. 

We hear knocking on the church’s doors. Wrelen sees rats. He wants them to check who’s behind the door. The rat reveals that it’s a vampire. Wrelen wants us out of the church. We took a short rest. The knocking goes on for 1 hour. Mayari goes to open the door. In the sunlight, an empty suit invites us into a [[Black Carriage]]. It’s from Lord Strahd. She asks the group if they want to go with the suit. Wrelen’s sus about it, asking if it’s wise to meet Strahd. Mayari pities the suit. 

Father Lucian suggests that he take our place instead. He goes and we run to the back door with the burgomeister and Ireena. We see soldiers wearing Lady Fiona’s colours and another with raven embroidered on them. Since it’s still chaotic, we slip past. We reach the docks and hear a young girl screaming for her parents. Mayari leaves Wrelen, Ireena and the Baron behind to first reach the screams.

The lake is dark. On the docks, she sees 3 rowing boats moored to the docks. A fourth is on the lake, a figure in it with a fishing pole in hand. Next to the man is a sack tied up. The man didn't respond and the screams came again, heavily muffled. The boat is around a few hundred feet away from the docks.  
  
She chose to take one of the boats to go to the man’s boat. He’s not focused on his fishing rod and instead is mumbling something softly. The sack is moving, almost like it’s struggling. The scream is coming directly from the sack. The boat bumps into each other, the man throws the sack into the water and tries to row away. Mayari tries to net the sack back up but fails.  
  
She teleports into the water, grabbing the sack and hoisting it back up into the boat. The man had gone overboard, struggling and drowning in the water. The person in the sack is a skinny girl shivering from the cold and wet. Wayhand wraps his cloak around the girl and accidentally licks her toes.  
  
Mayari asks if she’s alright. She says her name is [[Arabelle]]. It’s the name of the girl who’s missing from the [[Vistani Camp]]. She’s wearing rags that usually belong to orphans. Asked if she wants to travel with us. Says she wants her parents. They’re at Sirfall Camp. She’s afraid at first but sees Mayari wearing [[Vistani]] clothing and nods when she asks if the girl’s [[Vistani]]. Mayari wants to know if she’s kidnapped and if the man is her kidnapper who thinks it’s lucky to sacrifice a [[[[Vistani]]|[[vista]]ni]]. Offered her some ration. Explained about our situation. She’s willing to follow us as long as she’s not left alone. 

## Sesh 9 - 23/01

We arrived at the edge of the lake, near the village of Klatesti. Mayari asks the Wrelen if we should carry on. He said yes. The surrounding area consists of flatlands. There's forests and mountain range beyond it. There's a river coming from the North. Roads leading North and South West (to [[Vallaki]]). Road to West (Gruy), a bridge to the East. Lotsa mists. 

We go to Klatesti. We see smoke and hear combat. Village is burning, people fighting and monsters inside the homes. 

Senra is hunting in Klatesti to take a prey for his master. Senra is drab, angular, rough. Has black hair. He's hunting for specific prey. Young defenseless children. He pitied the kids and ashamed he had to do it. 

No werewolves we recognise. They seem to be bigger, stronger and ferocious. A small pack around 4 werewolves. There's screaming throughout the village.

Senra finally smelled the perfect prey. In the mists around the border of the village he smelled a young [[Human]] girl who's fearful,surrounded by creatures. He goes over.

We see a full black werewolf, towering at 9ft and having huge claws. Approaches us in a stalk, not overtly showing aggression. Mayari gets her warhammer out and wants to know what the werewolf wants. He gestures a snout at the child. The party doesn't want to give her up.

Senra howls to call his packmate. Rival packs answered. The glassy eyed wolf curls its lips, showing his canines, showing aggression. It attacks. In the background is more howling, but the sound of fighting is dying. 

The sounds of howling are celebratory. Someone's winning, but not Senra's pack. He howls to tell his pack there's danger around here and is going past the beastial spirit and Wayhand.

A bunch of shapes begin to surround you and says "that's quite enough." It's the doll werewolf says to Senra to give up the fight. He turns back into a [[Human]] and says that Emil is not in his territory. 

Emil says all territory is his, because he's the leader of the pack. He sees the party and asks about the doll. Wrelen gives it to him. He thanks them. Wayhand asks if they're friends. He looks down at Wayhand and says, "I appreciate you kept your word, ask anything of me." 

Mayari asks if he could help them to go against Strahd. He says he'll pretend to not hear that and says that sparing our lives is a gift enough. 

He says to Senra to not be seen here. Senra is angry. Emil goes away but returns to say that if they kills Kyrill he'd help them. 

They want to keep Senra at bay, and he went to look at the bodies of the wolves. They seem to have claw marks. The villagers are ready to burn the bodies away. Senra is shocked. 

Wayhand tries to hug him, but Senra pushes him away. Wayhand comforts him. Says we have to learn to move on. The best thing to do is find new people that love you as much as you love them. Senra says he's awfully chummy. 

Wrelen notices the villagers notice us and they're not really…welcoming. 

Senra looks back at the forest and he slowly transforms but fails. 

Mayari takes the lady and the child with her, passing the villagers and yells at the werewolf to move on if he cares for his life. 

Wayhand invites Senra to join the team. They find out he's attacking the party to get the child. He won't steal the party again. Wrelen asks if he wants to join us to kill Kyrill. Senra says that's his pack leader. Wayhand says he's just going to hug him hard and asks if Kyrill will help us against Strahd. Senra says the wolves are in allegiance of Strahd and will kill us at sight. He doesn't say anything about him being in allegiance and moves into the village. 

The team follows him. They see the dead bodies covered with sheets. Mostly young people. The villagers hold out makeshift weapons and one of them says, "That's far enough. What are you?" 

Senra says he's a native. But the villager is still wary because he's a stranger from Druga. Guy says he's a hunter, travelling. Senra's trying to suggest he knows something about the werewolves. Says they're manageable despite their danger. Says the team needs help and can protect the villagers in return. 

They allow us to stay one night at a house on the outskirts of the village. We follow Senra as he goes that way. It's a poor peasant house. There's a cooking stove, a common area. No privacy at all. 

Mayari checks on Lady Ireena. She's hella paler and more aware. She doesn't speak anymore. [[Arabelle]] is shocked but healthy and cuddles to the stove. She's cold to the touch. Her hands are dry. She feeds the child and assures her they'll try their best to get her home. She's also sorry that she had to see the violence. z

Wayhand asks "black haired dude, can you turn into the werewolf again?" 

Senra says it requires a lot of effort. 

Wayhand tries to ascertain how tall Senra is in werewolf form using his arm. 

Mayari takes the first watch. 

Senra has night terrors. 

The mist is still blanketing the land. Mayari introduces herself to Senra and asks for his name. He says it's Senra. She asks if he's really a hunter. He said no. His father was. He hunted game. She asks if he wants to follow the team. Wayhand asks if he wants to take the girl. Senra doesn't want them to kill Kyrill because he's the pack leader. He tells why he kidnaps children. They make the children fight each other and turn the strong one's into werewolves.

Wayhand asks where his loyalty lies. To Kyrill or Strahd. He says he doesn't want to do with any of them. He seems conflicted. 

Wayhand invites him to the team. Senra asks do we know why Emil wants Kyrill dead. He says Kyrill and Emil are vying for the leadership of the wolves.

Mayari asks Senra if he wants to be a pack leader. He doesn't know. Wayhand suggests Kyrill is a better leader. He's trying to ask how they change children to werewolves. He asks if he can turn to a werewolf. Senra says yeah. It just takes one bite

He says the team's mission to kill Strahd is crazy. The team says they're well aware. 

He blinks, in between them it changes into the eyes of the werewolf. He says Kirril is challenging Emil for a duel next full moon. (in two weeks) Senra suggests that Kirril is stronger in a one-on-one fight and that Emil won't show up because he expects them to kill Kirril. 

It gets chilly. Thick snow blanketed the ground. 

Mayari asks if he'd join the group. He agrees if they're going to kill Kirril. Their next move is to get out of the village.

## Sesh 10 - 25/01

-   Heading into the forest of the wolves to head towards [[Krezk]]
    
-   Plan is for us to get stronger so we can beat the wolves
    
-   Ran into [[Vistani]] woman trying to save children in the forest (captors of Emils pack)
    
-   We saved the woman then knocked her out, let the wolves take the kids
    
-   Her daughter was a part of the captors (presumed dead by [[Vistani]] woman)
    
-   We lied to her to shut her up 
    
-   It's been 2 days we have 2 weeks before the wolf fight(quest to kill Kirril before then)
    
-   Just reached  [[Krezk]]
    
-   Got into [[Krezk]] talked to a guard
    
-   He brought over the abbott  

## Sesh 11 - 01/02

The abbott introduces us to the guide, a scholarly looking [[Tiefling]] lady. A wizard named Uriel. She’s a native of the Valley of [[Barovia]]. He says that Senra doesn’t look civilised because he comments that Uriel is a [[Tiefling]]. He however welcomes us to stay and says we can do work if we want to. They need people to do chores - chop wood, etc. Raleigh asks where the winery is. Uriel says it’s at the end of Vinias.

We have discussed curing Ireena with the Baron, he wants holy books from [[Argynvostholt]]. He’s not sure what spells yet. Raleigh experiences the first effects of the vampire bite. He has nightmares and thinks he’s being watched.

As he scratches himself, Mayari asks if he needs a bath. He says no. Senra then sniffs the Leonin to detect if he’s sick. The werewolf smells something rotten, though there’s no visible injury on him. He tells the Leonin. Raleigh checks his body for any festering wound and can’t find anything. Uriel tries to check if she knows about festering wounds. She knows that there’s something wrong with Raleigh, as werewolf and vampire bites can be magical. Uriel says he needs to find a cleric to heal him, though he goes to the winery instead.

Before they leave, Senra tries to look for a dog. He finds a roaming pack of semi domesticated doggos, mongrels. He then looks to see if anyone’s nearby. Then he whistles and asks if they’re hungry in doggo language. The dogs surround him, excited for food. Senra pulls out a headless [[Rabbit]]. He takes a bite and tosses it to the pack. They eat it with gusto and very aggressively. Senra snaps his fingers and tries to intimidate them. The dog whines and backs off.  
  
Senra takes the [[Rabbit]] and tears it into pieces to let them share. When they eat, he talks to the biggest one to lead the doggos so they are safe and full. He just nods to the party when they look at him.

We take some rations. Senra looks for signs of werewolves.

We set out from [[Krezk]] to Ostoya, then to Uhejla before we got to Vinias. It’s early winter, so there’s not much snow…yet. Uriel led us to the vineyard. No snow or coldness around the vineyard. In the middle of the field is a small building. It’s the winery, with vines on its walls. 

Senra approaches the people loading the cart with wine. They greet him and he says he’s here to help. They ask what he’s helping. He says the clergyman from [[Krezk]] sent us to help. They say they never ask for help, and don't want to tell where the wine is going. Mayari and Uriel step up, one to apologise, the other to ask where the wine is heading. But the man doesn’t want to tell.  
  
Mayari suggests they find a higher up because these people seem reluctant. Uriel suggests they use [[Campaign Resources/Magic/Spells/Charm Person]] and Senra wants to ‘loosen’ them up. Raleigh sees something rustling among the wine and most grapes are dying. He walked up to them and commented about the dead grapes. They say they don’t know what’s happening. Raleigh smashes the cart with his axe. The two men turn into scarecrows.

We see 30 plant men, snarling and launching themselves at us. 1 single cloaked figure stands on the gate, just watching silently.

## Sesh 12 - 08/02

No Notes

## Sesh 13 - 15/02

With the combat over, we see the mysterious stranger.  
  
He says, “Friends, do you mind if I go through?” He gestures at the doorway behind us.Says his friend is the wounded raven.  
  
Wayhand says, I feel like you should back off and explain what are you doing here?  
He said he doesn’t want to be bothering but needed to help his friend because they were walking home and got attacked. The team offers to escort him up.  
  
The man flips the raven and inspects him.They offer to help. The body is covered in deep cuts and he’s unconscious from blood loss. We helped to bandage and put salves on the wounds.  
  
We go to the main room of the winery and the man builds a fire using the dead plants. The man is an [[Aarakocra]] male. He asks what we were doing here and why we had a problem with the plants.He says he’s not Barovian, stuck 10-15 years. Raven is Barovian.  
  
He’s an artist.Says his name is Dard Dardson.He plays his lute. He asks if he can pay us back. Mayari asks if he can tell them more about Strahd and asks about the wizard that had fought Strahd. He said yes, he’ll tell us about Mordenkainen. He’s one of the greatest archamage of the lands. He shows us visions of the young wizards and his feats using the fire. Then he entered Barovia, which was covered with darkness and sadness. He sees a way to seek more glory to prove himself. He travels through the valley, bringing hope to the people. They listened and followed. The rebellion begins, and they march to the castle. The wizard was defeated, with different rumours - he was washed away to the river, smashed by the rocks, or turnt into a vampire. Dard believes a different tale and shows us visions of a wizard in a mountain up north, with tattered clothes and having lost his [[Campaign Resources/Equipment/Weapons/Magic Wands and Staves/Staff of Power]]. He seems a bit…well a lot cuckoo. Dard ends the tale and asks if they would like to listen to more songs.

Mayari asks if he could tell about the werewolves. He said he’s paid his debt and prepares to sleep. But she offered to pay and he doesn’t accept money, but offers them to take off a book from his hand. He says someone he used to love and cherish gave him this book that he could not bear to keep. It’s a leather bound book with a metal framing and finishing, locked. There’s a raven emblem on it. Mayari takes it. Then we took a long rest. Woke up at 6pm. It’s snowing.

Dard is up, with his raven companion eating some soup.Mayari went up to them and asks for the raven’s name. [[Adrian Martikov]], he said. He thanked the team for attacking him and says he’s just being attacked randomly…he’s lying. Mayari casts the [[Campaign Resources/Magic/Spells/Zone of Truth]] but fails to gain anything. She dismisses the spell. Adrian offers her to exchange truths. He asks where they’re from. She says out of [[Barovia]], but he wanted to know where they’re from before coming to the winery. She says Kreszk. Mayari asks if someone sent the crows to him. He said yes. It was [[Baba Lysaga]], a powerful witch who lives in the marshes South of here.

Dard looks at him sharply, but the raven stops him. He asks who sent us here and why we are here. Mayari told him the Abbott sent us here to pick up wine. She asks why [[Baba Lysaga]] sent the birds after him. He says she wants to take over the vineyard for her magical purposes.There aren’t a lot of things growing in [[Barovia]]. One of the things is the grapes. There are magical gems that can help them grow, which the witch wants. He asks what are our goal in [[Barovia]], to which Mayari answered - to defeat Strahd. The gems are not there anymore, taken away and safeguarded. Which is why the grapevines are, well, dead.

Adrian stands up, limping and in pain. He says that he thanks them for safeguarding the winery and that his time is up. Wayhand asks if taking the gems will help it. Adrian says yes. And he gives the team a chain, says if they need him, just show it to the right people. Necklace has a small raven feather. The two then fly off into the night sky.

We then grab barrels, stacking them on the cart.This is the last supply of the Martikov’s winery. We went back to [[Krezk]]. We’re keeping 10 barrels, giving 10 to the Abott for free. We tell them about the winery’s offline. We also tell them about [[Baba Lysaga]] who had stolen the gem. Then, we head to Argen Stronghold.


## Sesh 14 - 22/02

Asking [[The Abbot]] about what he heard about the Baron recently. They hoped the city would still fight. Asked about the Wachter family. He said Fiona seems like a fine lady, but nobles are very self centred. He knows the witch is a fearsome enemy. Krezsk is only allied with the [[Morninglord]] since they are very smol. 

Senra discovered a mongrel-folk almost getting buried despite still being (weakly) alive while on a hunt. It’s an amalgamation of human body parts and animal body parts. He crushed its throat, giving it a final mercy. He then searches for his prey’s body. When he returns, Mayari asks if he’s alright. Says he’s ok.  
  
We found a manor with a dragon statue in front. It’s with moss and vines. The manor is partly in ruins. Wrelen knows silver dragons are good. He heads towards the stronghold.Knockers of the door are a pair of silver dragons. Etched on the door is [[Argynvostholt]]. Doesn’t look like anyone here recently. Looked very abandoned. Smells dusty. Wrelen tries to find traps. The door opens to a foyer. Felt like a King’s room. There’s a faded tapestry with a man with silver armour. There are 3 busts of men made with alabaster marble, the fourth one has fallen and broken - the pillar it was one has toppled.  
  
There are undead. We heard a hissing and a shadow moving across the room. The western room is ransacked. A fire dragon with smoke wings unfurls itself from the hearth.  
  
“My knights have fallen into darkness, save them if you can, show them the light they have lost”  
  
Then it disappeared.

The Queen’s sarcophagus has been turned into a wine cabinet. Things are hella broken. Mural of colourful birds and silver dragon decorated the walls and faded. Wrelen saw a black figure moving upstairs.There’s a locked gate going outside.

Another circular room. Furniture strewn over. Senra takes the curtains down. Behind the manor is a cemetery. With thick fogs.There’s a mausoleum. Kitchen at the side. The iron pot has bats in it. The winery is moldy. Hiding behind the barrels is a humanoid. An [[Elf]] asks who we are. He’s bleeding. Says he’s happy to see a living face. Tells his name is [[Savid]] and was out in the woods and was attacked by Needleblights and forced to find refuge here. Said he needs aid. Bandaged him and gave him water. The barrels are stamped with Wizard of the Vines, Champagne Du La Stomp. He said Argyn was very rich and liked his nice things.  
  
Mayari offers to heal but Senra offers his help instead. He licked the man’s wounds. [[Savid]] has been here for one night. He’s trying to get back to [[Barovia]]. Said he’s heard the occasional hissing and shadows. Told it’s probably the ghost of the dragon.  
  
It’s a [[Silver Dragon]]’s lair. Strahd’s soldiers slew the dragon and ransacked the place, because this was a refuge for people who were against Strahd. He’s asking to be escorted back to Barovia.  
  
We leave him to search another room. This room has giant spiders in it. The spiders are defeated. We enter the dining hall. There’s a 20 ft long table with dragons as legs. Above the table is a crystal chandelier. There’s a puddle on the floor. Other stuff is RIP-ed. A continual Light spell seems to be coming from the chandelier.

Fought spiders and won yay.  

## Sesh 15 - 01/03

The team goes upstairs.There’s statues lining the hallways - stone statues of knights. Look dusty and rotting. It feels like the eyes of the busts follow us as we move. Wrelen attacks a bust. The other busts no longer follows Wrelen. Entered the room, has a hearth of open dragon mouth. Bed with posts, rotting mattress and portrait of a good looking man above the fireplace. Wrelen takes the portrait and tears it apart. Within the fireplace, he saw an ember burning softly. It’s alive, but dying.It rolls away from Wrelen when he tries to pick it up. Senra walks over and asks what he’s doing. He said it’s a fire golem. Senra gives it the drape to consume. It eats it up, turning blue and forms into a dragon.

After finishing consuming the drape, he flies around and perches on the fireplace. Wrelen tries to control flame and make another dragon. The dragon tilts his head. Senra gives the dragon a wooden perch to land. It does so. He gave it a bow and asked if it speaks. It coughs a smoke ball to Senra’s face. It then flew away. We follow it upstairs and to the roof.

It flew off the debris. We see an audience room. A large wooden throne faces the west. An armoured figure with a gauntlet and longsword sits on top of it. It’s an undead. Wrelen’s talking to the dragon telepathically in draconic. The dragon says, “Light the beacon.” Wrelen asked, “which beacon?” It does not answer, doesn’t even answer if we’re in danger. Wrelen founds out that the telepathy is not from the dragon.

Senra finds out that it’s just an infant.

A shadow of a dragon slinks into the one on the floor. As we wait, the creature still doesn’t move. We move down, with the dragon following. Mayari feeds it a page. Wrelen makes his fire dragon fly to him. The dragon flew away in fright.  
  
The room we go in is also in tatters. The door creaks. There’s two beds and a tattered rug. There’s a fireplace. A dragon made of soot and smoke beats its wings. It flies away, with us following it. Wrelen speaks in draconic asking it to help us. Senra gives it a thumbs up. The dragon stops and floats.  
  
Mayari asks Wrelen to ask if it knows about the undead upstairs. It crumbles and fills the room with soot.  
  
Wrelen hears again, “Light the beacon”

We see two wooden doors at the end of the hallway.  
  
Senra folded the locked door in half. The room is littered with bunkbeds. There are 4 empty weapon stands. The next room, we see Phantom warriors and they watch us and disappear.

“All hope was driven from this place when strahd entered this valley. We were all loyal warriors and fought the good fight. You should have seen this in its glory days when it was decorated. Knights from all over the valley swore oath to do good deeds. We were happy once. No doubt you've seen the state of this manor, this hold, you see that the dragon we worship was slain by strahd.”

Plant creatures tore the castle down. Undead soldiers have no hope. We need skull for the beacon.

Wrelen has sworn his oath to the morning lord. Wrelen is now a knight of [[Argynvostholt]].

## Sesh 16 - 08/03

As we wake up, we see a female Tortle. In her palm is a stone arrowhead. She’s been sent here because we failed to report back to the company. She’s also holding a letter to tell us to report back and to guide the Tortle. She says her name’s [[Rabbit]]. She has a daughter named Bunny who follows her, holding her hand and skipping around. 

She’s a teen mum. Nobody in the monastery gonna look after her.

A MAN OBSERVES US FROM THE TOWER AS WE ENTER THE CEMETERY!

Mayari casts Divine Sense. Undeads are lining either side of the road to the mausoleum, not moving at all, obstructed by a fog. Wrelen casts [[Campaign Resources/Magic/Spells/Dispel Magic]]. We see the knights of [[Argynvostholt]]. We see gargoyles on the mausoleum. With white marble doors.

He opened the doors. There’s words on the wall in draconic.

Wrelen opened the stone coffin and sees a large skeleton. A silver dragon.The skull is lost. We leave [[Argynvostholt]], taking [[Savid]] with us. As Wrelen walks down the cemetery, he feels someone touch his hands and putting something in his hands. 2 tarot cards. The Ghost and The Paladin.  

Abbott says to Wrelen that something’s changed. There’s a disturbance in the Force. You’ve returned with a silvery light on you. What happened?

He told them that fighting [[Baba Lysaga]] is hard AF.  But he says he’ll help and passes over a small object covered with a red velvety cloth. Wrelen sees a hilt of a sword. He asks what it is. Abbott tells him to swing it. A blade of flames swings from the hilt.

Abbott tells it’s the Sword of the Sun, who wants to get revenge for the death of its crystal sword. The sword tells Wrelen to kill Strahd. He chucks it to Mayari who catches it.

He asks if the abbott knows anything of Baba. Was told gal’s old af and dangerous but don’t let the sword get into her hands if we fail. Wrelen makes us salves. Party stocks up. Wrelen gets the Ersatz Eye implanted into him.

We’re going to pass the Dread Pass. Traffic’s low, the road is whack. We see icy cliffs on our right. On the left, the ground is a sea of fog. There’s a guardhouse at the pass. But it doesn’t feel well kept. We enter the guardhouse. Bunny tries to touch the flame, but Mayari doesn’t let her. Ms. [[Rabbit]] lifts the guardhouse. Wayhand goes straight into the flames. RIP. No, not really.  
  
Wayhand saw a familiar [[Aarakocra]] on top of the wall. Dard Dardson the bard. He had a talk with the bard and asked how to get the wall of flame out. Dard used [[Campaign Resources/Magic/Spells/Dispel Magic]]. Wayhand says that’s hella nifty and asks why he doesn’t do that before he gets roasted. They had a little squabble. We all walked through and saw them squabble.

Mayari greets him and asks him about Adrian. He says that the raven is still recovering. He can't say anything about [[Baba Lysaga]] and said he has a song to tell. Wayhand says that’s very nice and gives a hand to the [[Aarakocra]], who shakes it with [[Campaign Resources/Magic/Spells/Mage Hand]].  

Guy strums his lute and we’re sent to a diff place.

“I hope you have someone like Tatiana”

“But I will.”

We sat at the edge of the castle of Ravenloft. There’s people at the wedding. Nobles. Abbott and members of high society. A festival is held for the common folk. The bell rings, we enter the chapel and we see a nice stained glass of a white knight and a red haired bride. 

The Baron is there.

Wayhand takes finger food and wine from a waiter. It’s the wedding of Lady Tatiana and Lord [[Sergei von Zarovich|Sergei]]. Wedding’s going to be soon. He took another glass of wine and gave it to Wrelen. He asked where the head waiter was.

Ms. Rabbit gives her child wine. She hears Dard’s voice guiding her and she enters the Hall of Faith. A waitstaff ushers her in. A lady with red hair is being pampered by the waitstaff. She greets the Lady. She says she’s marrying Prince [[Sergei von Zarovich|Sergei]] and she’s a peasant who met him during a hunting trip. She feels she’s not good enough for him. They’ve known each other for a year. She’s very nervous about the marriage.

Met the Baron. Lydia [[Vallaki]] is his wife. She fancies dolls. She invites Mayari to her hometown.

Met Lord Wachter. He’s very uh…reluctant to speak.

We go into the chapel. People are taking the seats. Organ music starts and stops. The large door of the chapel is open wide. Wayhand and Ms. [[Rabbit]] sees people wearing [[Armour]] beneath their robes. There’s 6 of them. Once the nobles come, they close the door. The 2 try to go out, but they aren’t allowed to, despite Ms. [[Rabbit]] says her daughter is drunk and alone. [[Mo]] tells Wrelen about the armour under the robes. As the monks leave to the kitchen, the prince and his bride go out to the altar.

Tatiana walks down the aisle. The priest starts the ceremony. Wayhand and Ms. Rabbit feels swords at their back and neck, telling them to not move or they’ll die.

The ceremony starts, tho a snap of a string and a crossbow bolt hits the person near the groom. And another hits the groom as he leapt to push his bride from harm's way. A line of attendance throws their robe and starts advancing to the nobles in the chapel.

Even as Wayhand fights, since it’s a story he can’t really…

The dark figure goes to check [[Sergei von Zarovich|Sergei]].  
  
Everyone is getting slaughtered.

Wrelen goes to check on [[Sergei von Zarovich|Sergei]].  
  
“I told you she would be mine,” the dark figure says and stabs [[Sergei von Zarovich|Sergei]]. “He then says we’ve been betrayed!” and went to fight the other nobles.

The image fades and Dard Dardson says he must get away now.

Wrelen saw the dark figure.

We leave the guardhouse going through the forest, taking our long rest and reach the marshy lands north of Lake Luna. Random peasant houses scattered throughout. The river and the lake are shallow and frozen over. We see light flashing near the ruins.

We got to the flashing lights. We see stone pillars on the earth. A weary looking peasant woman and a better looking gentleman hiding behind the largest stone, holding a lantern. It’s Adrian.  
  
He greets the party and says Dard told him we’d be here and offered assistance. Just that we need to give the [[Magic Stone]]. Mauriel is the woman and she’s the agent of the region. She speaks in a creaking old woman's voice.

[[Berez]] was abandoned long ago after the river rose and flooded the village.

• An ancient and powerful hag named [[Baba Lysaga]] lives in a hut in the middle of the village. When not in her hut, [[Baba Lysaga]] flies around in a giant skull.

• The scarecrows of [[Berez]] are murderous creatures under the hag's control. They surround [[Baba Lysaga]]'s hut and serve as an early warning system.

[[Baba Lysaga]] periodically sends her scarecrows to at­tack the [[Wizard of Wines]], a winery and vineyard west of [[Berez]]. She's made enemies of the Martikov family, which owns and operates the winery and vineyard.

• The hag has trapped several mountain goats in a pen near the ruins of an old mansion. (Muriel assumes that [[Baba Lysaga]] feeds on these animals.)

Wayhand asks if the scarecrows are under the witch’s control or sentient. She says they’re in her control and are able to see invisible things. She then goes away after telling the information. 

Wrelen sense the Gods have blessed the lands he is standing on. He notices any creature that stands within the circle of the stone can’t be scried. The stones are carved with bear, elk, hawk, goat, owl, panther, raven, and wolf on either of them. His key doesn’t react to anything however.

It’s early in the day and very foggy and snowy. Turns out she only sends her scarecrows once a week to attack the winery.

Wrelen searches for a small creature, wild shape into a rat and recs. As he approaches, he sees that there are scarecrows scattered throughout the village. He can’t get too close to the middle of the village lest he wishes to encounter the scarecrows. 

## Sesh 17 - 15/03

Cancelled

## Sesh 18 - 22/03

Not enough attendees, made characters for Cursebreaker

## Sesh 19 - 29/03

