*do an alternate world if players are uncomfortable with real names. Mix n match culture. Time period now, except post huge ass war. 

  

You're all part of an organisation trying to make a mark in this place. It's a recovery period from the recent wars. For better or for worse a lot of people are going to take advantage of that for a new start or...a jumping stone for their ongoing agendas.

  

Generic City - slowly recovering from war. Not in a major country involved during WW3 but was a part of the war. Was invaded for a time by a country who was a major player in WW3. Used to be a bustling city before around 25% of the citizens were forced to participate in the war. The city centre is the main POI here as they have soup kitchens and general shelter. Just yonder is the even smaller town of Sides. They do agriculture there. It is slowly building itself back up as it starts trading with different towns.

  

Local Government - The local council keeps a tight leash on local citizens, but they are also pretty corrupt. The Police Militia however, are a group of citizens that acted by themselves, working with the government during the war. They are bestowed with the legal right to maintain peace as needed and mostly feared by the citizens. The Judges are highly moralistic people who believe in justice and fairness, abiding to the rules to a fault. They work intimately with the Police Militia, sometimes surpassing the local council.

  

Local Gangs - The local gangs are established by people with either of these two in mind. a) they want to take advantage of the hubris from the war or b) they want to create a secure place for themselves and like-minded people.

  

In Generic City, there are 3 prominent gangs and scattered smaller gangs vying for a bigger hold on it. They are - The Don Dressers. Mafia with Don Casimo (orderly) (Italian) on the head. He is an old man with a gentle face. He has scars on his arms and his back. His loyal followers are broken down into part of families. They were the biggest gang in the area, gaining prominence mostly from bribing officers and planting people into Local Government. Don Casimo himself lucked out during the war, as his family had a large metal manufacturing plant. They found allies during the war, one of them was the Lin family who managed part of the Don’s logistics. 

  

2nd- The Road Ragers. This group consists of very angry, aggressive youths who roam the streets to smash things and smash faces. Their revered leader is Orriene (sun) Alarie (all-powerful) (French name). She is the daughter of the former leader who died in a gang war. The Road Ragers are active only in their turf, though they do try to gain more. Their main concern is to just be violent. 

  

3rd - Religious Cult Salva Ava. This group consists of a duo who promises people riches and influence. They are popular with older people or people with financial problems. Nobody is sure why they are amassing people but there are rumours of them really giving out money for free. 

  

  

World War 3 - the conflict between Ukraine-Russia caused Europe and most Western countries to pick sides. China made things worse, most of the world went to war. In that war, Russia did not manage to use their nuclear weapon, instead they used holy spirits to aid them. This rips apart a rift between worlds. Spirits versus humans versus spirits. Some left when the war ended, some stayed behind when the rift closed after the death of the summoners responsible for the rip. 

  

Contemporary historians agreed it all started with a 17 years cold war involving the alliance of Europe-N.A versus Sino-Russia. The hot war that came lasted another 6 years, with threats of nuclear weaponry and the involvement of the Middle-East and half of Asia before it ended with the wave of spirits. Though mostly agreed that it has ended, parts of the world still have ongoing conflict.

It has been 8 years since the Rift War. Development is slow at best due to global political and economical instability.

  

Spirits - general name for entities coming through a ripped rift between worlds. Some were bound to the people who summoned them, some bound to their leaders. Others are just in for the fun. They have magic but since the rift is closed, some of the newer generations have weaker magic than the older, pre-rift spirits.

  

Magic - to summon requires you to know how to. 

Spirit magic requires a sacrifice. Some religions go against magic, especially spirit magic. 

  

Human - Fantastical Creatures Relationship

  

So far, there is a silent agreement between the two factions that none would harm the other  except for self defence and certain other exceptions. Human laws are abided in human zones while a general fantastical creature law is abided in their zones. A fantastical creature that made a pact with a human abides the human more than the laws of the zones.

  

Intra-fantastical Creatures Relationship

  

The factions have a verbal agreement used according to their traditions in the rift. Most are cordial with each other, at least until proven harmful. However, some may be more aggressive towards the other. There are new generations who have never seen the rift, having been born and raised on the other side.

  
  
  

SESH 1

  

Characters finish up a mission and wake up in their quarters. Ask them to introduce themselves. Ask them to add smartphone in their inventory. Smartphone has limited use, because some parts of the city have still not recovered their network grid. There’s only 16 hours of electricity use in the city, unless you have your own generator. Don Casimo has a generator.

  

NPC - Willea. He’d message the characters to ask them to go meet the Don. He’s the Don’s Right hand person.

  

Don Casimo. Gentle. Kind. Soft spoken. Will praise the characters for their success in the previous mission. Offers them another mission - to sabotage Salva Ava’s recruitment. The group’s planning a talk just border of DD’s turf. They’ve been recruiting some of DD’s workers and he’s worried they’d influence more.

  
  

Past mission - was another sabotage, successful 

  
  

*Rosamund also known as Sleeve McDichael. Wants protection by the mafia.

  

*Gumiho looks like a normal human and always wears a mask, always has 2 knives on him. A spy.

  

*Rick is completely innocent who got dragged by Rosamund. He’s joining the mafia because he needs protection.

  

*Lily 

  

**Rick followed Willea’s IG

  
  

**A list of names of missing people, people who knows Salva Ava

  
  

Peace and Offerings 

in front of the City Hall on 18th (4 more days) at 11 am

  

2nd sesh

  

- They are going to find the list of people and get into combat

## Session 4
The exorcist wasn't able to get any info other than the spirit was very powerful.

  

Spirits come from a different place, and they have a different kind of magic. Like Gumiho is a spirit & he has his own magic; Sabina is a different spirit, and so has her own special magic.

  

A limo pulls up a few ft from the restaurant Sabina & Gumiho are at. "Get in," a voice from the shadows whispers. It's the kind of creep cars with tinted black windows. There's no distingushing markers. Well kept. Clean. Polished.

  

Gumiho tries to get a peek in. There are glasses. A 7/10.

  

They agree to get in.

  

"I'm Col. Paxton."

  

"Pleased to meet you."

  

"I wish it was a pleasure to meet you too. The two of u have been spotted in strange situations & I have a few questions."

  

He hands over an envelope filled with photos. Photos of Gumiho chasing the kid in the alley. There's none that are completely scented.

  

"I work for the govt, and I hope that u can work with us as best as possible."

  

"I just inivestigate magic crimes. I don't care where you work." grabs a picture of the kid & puts it on top. "I'm more interested in this."

  

"That's sth of mine."

  

"The photo or the kid?"

  

"The kid?"

  

"And you killed him... bc he had sth of yours?" ... "Listen. We've had many reports of glowing people across the city—and ur the first to interact with them consistently."

  

"Are u sure Don C doesn't have anything to do with this?"

  

S: "We were supposed to find the ppl connected to hwatever we wer going against—and apparently the ppl we found have the same symptoms. The glowing bits."

  

"Who sent you?"

  

"You just said the name."

  

"Don C?"

  

"Yes."

  

"And what have you found so far?"

  

"These glowing people are possesed. By spirits. And react v poorly to stress—and that reaction in turn makes things blow up."

  

"Who's possessing these ppl with spirits?"

  

Sabina turns towards Gumiho. "Are we really sure that it's—them? Or are we just pulling at strings?"

  

"2 so far. That's a small sample size."

  

"It is... our suspicon that it's Salva Ava."

  

"I know who they are. How do I know this isn't  a turf war?"

  

"Thta's what we have thus far. If u want t odig in more—if u want to dig, ur free to go on ur way. I will be in touch." The limo stops somewhere random.

  

Sabina gives over the card. 

  

-

  

Ar isn't the kind of person to get her own hands dirty; but she is in the upper echelons of the gang. So she's in the office trying to get information or at a club.

  

Alabasta's by the bar; drinking a shotglass of milk.

  

Ar orders her own drink.

  

"So? I heard u might be interested in working for the Don."

  

"I am Alabasta. tbh I've been in contact with the Don before. I have done a few jobs here and there. It's just I have mor efree time on my paws lately. It would be nice to be in contact with him again."

  

 Someone from SA is gonna be at the club tonight. Ar burns the note; says "Help yourself" to Alabasta.

  

Ar asks Al to help her.

  

Al notices that the club is quiet; like its been roped off; like someone important is coming.

  

"The problem with all those private rooms is that I can't waltz into them."

  

"Fair."

  

Al asks to book a booth. A manager comes in. "What would u like ot know about the bookings?"

  

Al asks about the booths. They manage to get a booth.

  

"Dustin Chance—a young influential lord. Never seen him in town before; guessing that's who ur looking for. U never heard it from me."

  

-

  

Giselle Staurheim — Izzy's supervisor: "One of ur shipments is missing. We need u i nthe lab. There's been some spirit-growing things I've been hearing about. I need a way to grow thigns faster."

  

"I'll inform the Gallaghers of ur request—"

  

"No. You'll get there right now. The person will meet u outside the lab."

  

A person w glowing hands makes a plant go fast! She turns to look at Izzy. "See?"

  

The person can grow once every 10 hours. She agrees to meet with Izzy in 12 hours.

  

-

  

Lily fills up the club. Al sees a few figures at a booth; one of them is Dustin, super flashy. There are 2 ppl outside.

  

-

  

Gumiho & Sabina. A few streets away. They don't know where they are.

  

It's 11.

  

-

  

Sabina finds out the rate of disappearnces has increased since last night; and from Izzy that there's a glowing person to catch.