# Political Strife

### [[Rai Kanaan]] - King
Is a strong and powerful man with dark, intense eyes. Incredibly worn out with greying hair, he has the look of a broken man. Though he has lost the will to do anything, pride will motivate him to act. Doesn't care about his kingdom, leaves his sons and lords to their own devices. Collects rare and valuable items for his museum. Tall and domineering man that was broken by the death of his first wife. After ascending to the throne due to his mothers favour, he defeated his brother in a horrifying war that devastated the nation. To finish the war and solidify the kingdom he entered into a political marriage with Fayeh, though he was not happy. Shortly after this as more and more nobles appeared at his court, he met Zaia, his true love. A whilrwind romance leads to her pregnancy and a secret marriage. Unfortunately she died in childbirth,.
### [[Fayeh Kanaan]] (Kasis) - Queen (political alliance with king)
Satuirday wears a sorcerous cloak made of starshine and moonshade. She also wears a dress of spun gold studded with small sapphires. Her hair is long and electric blue, and she wears a sorcerous gold circlet on her brow, which has spells written on it in shifting silver. She uses a shade of blue on her lips.She is a powerful sorcerer. She was a bitter and envious woman, who hated Zaia and wants her sons to be the next kings.
Fayeh's spell casting focus is a quill. It can be used to write spells into the air allowing her to cast spells without needing to speak. 
### Lady [[Zarah Ba'az]] - 2nd Biggest House in the country
Lady Zarah is tall, and very beautiful. Her robes are gold, and she enjoys wearing jewelry. This combined with her aasimar descent gives her a glowing and angelic look that leaves all who see her in awe. A collector of books and knowledge, her capital boasts one of the greatest libraries in the world. She highly rewards intelligent and thoughtful followers and individuals. Her sister Zaia fell in love with the king. Her whirlwind romance and child with the king lead to her death. Something friday will never forgive the king for. This is one of the major reasons for the current war.                    
### Sir [[Saladin Jafay]] - General of the Army
Sir Thursday isn't handsome, charismatic or powerful like the other nobles. He looks quite ordinary, but he is extraordinarily strong and talented. He always wears a simple metal breastplate with no medals or decorations. A simple minded and yet hard working soldier he is fiercely loyal to the throne. Due to the king's inactiveness, he too has been stuck at the capital with his army, unable to act despite the wishes and demands of the princes and the queen. Despite his good features, he can have a cruel streak, prone to beating or executing any subordinates that fail and has shown to be prone to violent fits.
### [[Aida Khouf]] - Admiral 
Aida is a beautiful woman with brown hair. She wears a dress of fine sil with a mother of pearls belt. She carries a magical trident. Leader of the nation's navy, she carries the heavy burden of safeguarding the seas and the country's abundant coast. Killed most of her subordinants because of their alliegences to the king or other political figures. 
Bishara is her only remaining subordinant. She is an attractive woman with straw coloured hair held with a silver net. She is greatly loyal to her leader and will never betray her. 
### [[Lord Tasim]] - Leader of the border Barons
[[Lord Tasim]] is described as a tall man, thin but strongly built, and with black hair and no eyebrows. He wears leather armour and carries a large claymore. Leads seven barons.
Yan, Rhyos, Zien, Methera, Nesar, Azer and Sethera,
### [[Draen Kanaan]] - Richest Lord in the Nation, Youngest Son of the King and Queen
Draen is said to be a pale, handsome young man with circled eyes. Has blonde hair and blue eyes. Lazy but a genius with money and has a nose for trade. Sick of the constant war and devastation, he wants someone to put an end to it all somehow. His subordinates arnt trustworthy enough so he reaches out to the party.
Turol - His butler, takes care of him. Haughty and mistrustful of all enemies. 
[[Suzy Blue]] - Has a young informant called [[Suzy Blue]]. Suzy is reckless, adventurous, and tomboyish. She does not like to be kept away from action and will often bend or break the rules in order to find some. She is a ragamuffin but a great friend and very loyal.
### [[Najil Kanaan]] - King's Brother
The Old One displays considerable bitterness when speaking of his Mother, claiming that She refused to recognize his abilities and talents. Despite his bitterness and hatred of his brother, he has grown into a knowledgable and wise old man. Blinded by his brothers loyal forces and forced into exile after he attempted an uprising. He now sits and plots his brothers murder. Will seem like a nice and amiable man when the party meet him. A friendly giant with the strength to rip any man in two despite his old age. Has learnt to walk around unaided and to even fight to a certain extent. Has/wants artificial glass eyes.
### [[Akim Kanaan]] - King's Cousin
A captain in the navy, the mariner keeps to himself mostly even though he commands great power and respect in the kingdom. Many of the nobles want him to take the throne to help secure the kingdom, but much like wednesday, he would much rather stay to his own devices. Wields a harpoon made of a strange heavenly light northern lights). The harpoon can instantly materialise whereever he wishes it to and is a legendary weapon. His only wish is to explore the seas and find his true love again(a mermaid or some sea spirit).
### [[Karim Kanaan]]- King's Nephew (believes himself to be the rightful heir)
The son of the Old Man and the leader of the "rebellion" an army of peasants and dissidents that wish to overthrow the king. The nobles detest him for his sympathies and the peasants treat him as a kind of robin hood figure. His face was disfigured as a baby during his fathers rebellion.
### [[Elishar Feverfew]]
A fearsome sorceror pirate that uses a small pocket realm to hide from the enemy navy. He has a magically animated ship that functions by itself. He keeps no crew and has no loyalties except to money and magical items. His main goal is to gain more and more magical knowledge and items, especially a cure to a rare and magical disease.  
### [[Rafi Kanaan]] - RED/Lioness
King's Son with his Love
Dark haired heir to the throne. Is on the run due to the queen wanting him dead. Is sheltering with the border barons who want to use his legitimacy to gain some power for themselves. 
### [[Taka Kanaan]] -  BLUE/Hawk
King's Son with Fayeh
Blonde haired charismatic boy. He grew up in the bitter shadow of his mother even though he loves his half brother. The two of them were driven apart due to her machinations. House Kasis and their allies support his bid for the throne, declaring Rafi to be a bastard.
### [[Zesan]]
https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/Mulrak_Mindbreaker_(5e_Creature)

### 16/8/21Session 0

### 23/8/21 Session 1
They arrive on the SEN islands and land on the village of [[Exeter]]. Here they see a [[Dwarvish]] spice trader and her guard. They head into town, into a bar. Find some quests. One of the [[quests]] lead to a young [[tiefling]] child and his father [[Bain Rano]]. The father is the mayor of the village and an architect. He charges them with a quest to get building materials from a nearby island.  

### 30/8/21Session 2 
- Bartered for horses - 3/horse/day
- Travelled to newt spot
- killed burrowshark and rider
- found bark necklace and family sketch
- found carving of walking trees inside tree
- piles of sticks nearby
- went to newt pools, used net to catch newts
- newts were blind, crossed river to investigate fire
- found pirates, killed them after they tried to loot [[Harman]] (he approached them, not hiding)
- Silvanaris approach them, thank them for killing the thieves, they chat
- [[Chao]] crowbars box to get eye of newt, tries to hide it from silvanaris, shoots silvanari by accident
- they hand over the eye of the newt and travel to an outpost (silvanaris wont allow strangers close to their settlements)

### 6/9/21 Session 3
They travelled to the Silvanari Outpost. They meet warriors and priests. [[Marvis]] mends [[Tools]] in return for poison berries. They find the sister of the man they killed named Avice. She is a brave and almost careless warrior. They are shown around the village and they find a charmed state of a dog with gem-like eyes. They promise to investigate these things for the village in return for gaining their favour. [[Marvis]] takes a black dagger. 
- Craven's Edge. Reduces his strength to zero, will give him more strength if he kills certain targets. 
# The dagger will lead to [[Yianni]]'s Shadow Lord.
They find a magical pool that leads to the challenge of the champions. Noone has ever succeeded this challenge. They decide to jump in. The clear the first challenge which teaches honour in combat (returning a weapon to an unarmed opponent).

### 13/9/21Session 4
They do the second challenge which teaches about not trusting appearances and to trust riddles completely. Also silvanaris walking trees make their debut. They get to the 3rd challenge which teaches them not to be greedy and to expect nothing in return for their heroics. They return to the outpost as heroes. [[Chao]] returns the eye of newt to the [[Priest]] Kent/Warrior named Clayden. Then [[Chao]] tells Avice that they were the ones that killed her brother. Avice is heartbroken and the Party promises to take care of her nephew and raise him to be a warrior(Juliius).  The party leaves the Outpost and returns to [[Exeter]] where Bain gives them a mission to find a blacksmith for the town. They decide to head to the most (arab country).

### 20/9/21 Session 5
Travelled to [[Erias]]. Arrived at the town of [[Kester]]. Town is burning and there are signs of recent combat between armies. They help Hawks(Taka's army) put out the fire and earn the respect and trust of the commander(Faareed) and a Hawks captain (Asim). Commander gives them a scroll to deliver. They take it to the town of Akavi where Draen Kanaan lives. Draen gives them an assassination mission to kill both his brothers. [[Chao]] is irritated at his behaviour and wants to kill him. They walk out on Draen. They sail back to sen islands and drop off the blacksmith they picked up at kester. Bain tells them that Taz is missing. They track Taz to the forest and find him trapped in a tree (Fey). A redcap attacks them and they fight it to death. They find magical tree scrolls that help them free Taz.

- Bark scrolls feed a living creature to a tree, filling it with blood and life essence. These trees are used in dark rituals. 

[[Chao]] picks up a gateway ring (desstination unknown) and a power capturing ring. The power ring traps a part of him into whichever finger he puts it on. The finger then rots, withers and dies. He also finds a green finger. This finger belonged to a witch and he can gain the witches powers if he ever attaches it to his hand. 

### 27/9/21 Session 6
38 days in

### 04/10/21 Session 7

### 11/10/21 Session 8
Cancelled
### 18/10/21 Session 9
Got vaccinated
### 25/10/21 Session 10
### 1/11/21 Session 11
### 8/11/21 Session 12
Cancelled
### 15/11/21 Session 13
[[Zesan]] assassinated - [[Antouf]] (Lord of the seige city), [[Adam Schneider]], [[Yusuf Tazim]], [[Icca]]
### 22/11/21 Session 14
Had an exam 
### 29/11/21 Session 15
