Clans

|   |   |   |   |
|---|---|---|---|
||Capital|Clan|Races|
||Gyogyo|Date|Orcs|
||Honhoro|Shimazu|Elves|
|S|Jyujiro|Tokugawa|Tieflings|
||Kaikaku|Mori|Triton|
||Kanchoi-Ki|Oda|Goblin|
||Kumanokawa|Otomo|Lizardfolk|
||Kusongu|Takeda|Halfling|
||Ryugu-Jo|Ikko-Ikki|Mixed|
||Saisai|Hattori|Shadar-Kai|
||Sankan|Uesugi|Human|
||Sharinan|Chosokabe|Human|
||Shinrin|Chiba|Human|
||Ukyoku|Hojo|Dwarves|

  
  

## Chiba

Treasury: 5000

Resources: Fish and Wood

Leader:  Chiba Suzume

Introduction

The Chiba clan was founded by Chiba Hiroto, a man who was said to be a man who was as calm as the Lake Biwa and extended the calmness towards his surroundings. The Chiba clan traditionally hold lands up to part of the current Shimazu’s han. This was lost after the death of Chiba Itsuki who was the current clan leader at that time and Chiba Taka, his son in a war. The Shogun had decided that their deaths were a humiliation to him and punished the clan. They are now sitting quietly in their capital of Shinrin, a small clan struggling to keep their head out of water. So far, they have shown their ability in keeping peace with the other clans. Some suspect they are able to hone mystic arts, though the rumours were quickly hushed. Only the clan themselves know the truth about that. With the young Suzume now in power, it is hoped that the clan could change course towards a better future. The road is long and tough, but even underdogs have a shot for the shogunate.

  

Masters of 

- Main clan family members have spellcasting abilities. 
    
- somethingsomethingscholarlyorfishy-y
    

  

Vassals

- Sato Hotaru - Had been with the clan back even before the current leader was installed. He had been to wars and triumphed, with scars to prove.
    
- Tanaka Mako - Used to be a ronin who was given a place within the clan when he proved himself useful in a war with Chiba Itsuki.
    
-   
    

  

## Chosokabe

Treasury: 50,000

Resources: Crops and Pottery

Leader: Chosokabe Kunichika

Introduction

The Chosokabe clan claim descent from the Chinese Emperor Qin Shi Huang. Despite their long history, the Chosokabe clan has had mixed fortunes, and has been under the protection of the Mori, who helped them to recapture their castle at Oko. Chosokabe Kunichika, the daimyo, is certainly bold and brave enough to have imperial blood in his veins: he once jumped off a castle wall for a dare! He has now ended their reliance on the Mori, rebuilt Chosokabe influence, and vowed revenge on his enemies. Kunichika can take advantage of the Chosokabe’s traditional strengths: they are phenomenal farmers, and gain extra income from their lands; they produce superb archers and cheap archer units too. With their strength concentrated in Sharinan province, the Chosokabe are already at war with the small Kono clan to the northwest. Now they have to make an interesting strategic decision: deal with their immediate enemies in Shanrinan, crush the Mori clan at home in Kaikaku, or attack the Hattori clan of Saisai province. This last might seem like madness, but Saisai is blessed with plentiful farms, a valuable resource for anyone planning to expand their clan army. The other nearby resource that will be incredibly useful is the good building stone in Ukyoku to the north east. Once these immediate opportunities and problems are resolved, then who is to say the next shogun will not be a Chosokabe lord? 

Masters of the Land

- Wealthy and prosperous farms
    
- Superior bow infantry
    

Vassals

- Tawara Chikatara - Young talented captain, connected to the emperor via marriage. 
    
- Kono Clan - Originally allied with the Mori, they were conquered and vassalised while the Mori was busy fighting elsewhere. Some hostility still remains.
    
- Amagiri Clan - A mountain clan that owes light fealty to the clan, but only pays lip service.
    
- Kagawa Yukikage - Most powerful retainer, manages the domain as his daimyo has no interest in such matters.
    

  

## Date

Treasury: 80,000

Resources: Stone and Wood

Leader: Date Harumune

Introduction

Date warriors have fierce and unforgiving natures. Their foes learn this on the battlefield, shortly before they die. Their fearsome no-dachi samurai, with two-handed swords, are a fearsome sight on the battlefield. Attack is a Date watchword! Seen from their home province of Gyogyo, there are many rivals worth attacking. Date Harumune, their daimyo, is already at war with rebels at his own door, not to mention rebellious vassals to the west. The Mogami clan had long denied their true overlords and refused to pay tribute. An attack there could put holy shrines under Date control. To the southwest, matters are a little more settled: the Uesugi clan in Sankan is currently at peace with the Date, but who knows if such a situation will last? The forests of Saisai represent a useful resource too. The clan was founded by Isa Tomomune when he was given control of the Date district by the shogun Minamoto Yoritomo at the end of the 12th Century. The clan steadily gained influence until recently, when fighting broke out within the clan over the issue of a marriage alliance with the Uesugi. Date Harumune quarrelled violently with his own father, Tanemune, over plans to marry off his younger brother: a large number of the Date retainers and warriors agreed with Harumune and the old man was removed. Now, Harumune needs a new challenge, perhaps the shogunate?

Masters of Battle

- Superior no-dachi samurai
    
- Well trained and disciplined troops
    

Vassals

- Oniniwa Clan - Trained and experienced warriors and generals
    
- Katakura Clan - Shinto priests turned warriors. Personal guards of Harumune
    
- Rusu Clan - Charged with maintaining and defending Date castles. Fiercely Loyal.
    
- Watari Clan - Leading retainer. Watari Shigezane is one of the best soldiers and leaders.
    
- Shiroishi Clan - Minor retainer and leader of a small spy network
    

  

## Hattori

Treasury: 1,000,000

Resources: Trained Ninjas

Leader: Hattori Yasunaga

Introduction

The Hattori are the leading family in Saisai, a plains province with abundant farms. Saisai is also the home of the independent Iga Sokoku Ikki, a kind of proto-republic which denied the power of the Kamakura shogunate’s feudal lords. The people of Saisai developed a school of martial arts, the Iga-ryu ninjutsu, which combined martial arts, assassination techniques and unconventional warfare tactics. They used their ninjutsu to keep their independence, and then to make themselves wealthy as swords-for-hire. The tradition of independence, however, has remained strong in Saisai and among the Hattori. Ninjutsu remains a dark art, passed down through families and jealously guarded from outsiders’ eyes. It is not surprising, then, that the Hattori can recruit ninja warriors more cheaply than any other clan, and their ninja also have more expertise, both on and off the battlefield. Under the leadership of Hattori Yasunaga, the clan remains dangerous. As he looks beyond the borders of Saisai, who knows where ambition may take his clan: perhaps to the shogun’s palace? The Hattori are largely at peace with their neighbours, although such arrangements have a tendency to fall apart. To the west, the Chosokabe represent a tempting target, as there is a school of ninja there. To the east, the rebel clans, Kitabatake and Tsutsui defend holy sites that might be better under Hattori stewardship, while the Tokugawa represent all that is wrong with the old tired system of government, as they control what passes for a shogunate at the moment. 

Masters of Darkness

- Specialist ninjas
    
- Amazing assassins
    

Vassals

- Iga-ryu - Faded clan of Samurai that were accepted by Hattori after they were casted out by the Tokugawa
    
- Koga-ryu - A school of ninjas and assassins
    
- Fuma Kotaro - A pirate lord that owes the Daimyo his life.
    
- Hatori Masanari - Heir and famous swordsman and ninja. Nicknamed the Demon
    

  

## Hojo

Treasury: 30,000

Resources: Stone, Livestock

Leader: Hojo Shikuro

Introduction

The Hojo are greater builders than any other clan. Any castle costs are reduced for them, and damage is cheaper to repair. They can also produce cheaper, and better, siege weapons than any other clan. These skills allow the Hojo to pursue a strategy of occupying land, then daring an enemy to evict them. The Hojo began their rise to power modestly enough in the mountains of Ukyoku, taking advantage of civil war and the troubles of others to establish themselves. Ise Shinkuro, a powerful official in the shogunate, founded the clan, but it was his son who adopted the name Hojo, even though the family had no connection with the Hojo clan of elder days. The clan did not go unchallenged, and they fought both Uesugi factions: the Uesugi even stopped fighting each other to take on the Hojo!

They have also had incidents with the Chosokabe and Mori clans, but for now there is an uneasy peace. Should the Hojo daimyo ever be in a position to become shogun, peace will vanish faster than the cherry blossoms. From their homelands in Ukyoku, the Hojo are surrounded by threats and great opportunities. The Hattori, in addition to occupying a strategic land trade route, are also the owners of abundant rice fields, and no warlord can afford to ignore such a potential prize. The Chosokabe can also prove to be an easy target. However, the Hojo also have an immediate problem: they are under threat from an Uesugi clan army about to invade.

Master Builders

- Castles are cheaper to build and repair
    
- Superior siege units
    
- Great defenders of land, especially in their home lands in the mountains
    

Vassals

- Izu Clan - Forgers and talented smiths. Can create guns. 
    
- Satomi Clan - Clan of talented architects and artisans. Great stone workers.
    
- Satake Clan - Clan that makes up a large part of the Hojo army.
    

  

## Ikko Ikki

Treasury: 3000

Resources: Trained monks

Leader: Rennyo

Introduction

The Ikko Ikki, the “single-minded league”, are inspired by their faith, Jodo Shinshu Buddhism, the “true pure land”, a sect founded by the monk and philosopher Shinran. Unlike other Buddhist monks, Shinran married and many of his descendants have been the high abbots, or monshu, of the sect since. Rennyo, the most influential and persuasive of the high abbots, led his sect to Ryugu-Jo after the Jodo Shinshu temple in Kumanokawa province was destroyed as a nest of heretics by Tendai monks. Despite this setback, Rennyo has made Ryugu-Jo and Noonfare Islands into strongholds of his faith. While largely a movement of peasants, inspired by a vision of paradise to create that paradise on earth, the Ikko Ikki are not without military skills. Members of the Shimozuma clan have acted as advisors and commanders for the Ikko Ikki. Shimozuma Rensu was, for example, a staunch supporter of the movement, and a military advisor to Rennyo. Rennyo professed a belief in non-violent action, but not in being defenceless. This explains why the Ikko Ikki can recruit superior warrior monks, and large, relatively cheap ashigaru units. The monks spread the faith; the people believe. The Ikko Ikki also rely on their appeal with the common people to spread the word and dissent in other lands. This makes them a threat to the established order of the great clans and their lords. A religious republic offers many attractions to the downtrodden, but not to the already mighty. Wherever they turn, the Ikko Ikki are likely to be opposed by the clans, and welcomed by the people, assuming the word is spread carefully first…

Masters of Faith

- Can recruit large units of ashigaru, weak but with high morale
    
- Convert peasants and buddhists to their cause
    
- Can recruit superior warrior monks
    

Vassals

- Shimotsuma Rensu - Ji-Samurai. Leader of a smaller army completely under his control. Leader of the Noonfare Islands
    
- Masachika Yasakuta - Shugo of Ryugu-Jo. Now a mere figurehead as Rennyo is the true leader of the islands. Devout buddhist.
    
- Rejun - Son of Rennyo, leader of zealous warrior monks. Greedy for power. Currently trying to start a rebellion in Kanchoi-Ki
    
- Togashi Clan - Small clan of devout buddhist samurai that train the Ikko-Ikki soldiers and educate the masses
    
- Goto Mototsugu - Nicknamed Oni, a fearsome warrior and ronin.
    

## Mori

Treasury: 700,000

Resources: Exotic Fish, Silk

Leader: Mori Motonari

Introduction

The Mori have a long history of seafaring and are sea masters without equal. They can read the waves and move their fleets further than other clans, and their shipbuilding skills make the construction and maintenance of ships cheaper too. They can also build some rather superior vessels as well. The Mori came to prominence as jito, or stewards, of the Kaikaku province after the Jokyu War in 1221. Despite owing their position to the Kamakura shogunate, they distanced themselves from their sponsors, and were in league with Tokugawa Takauji when he overthrew the old order. They got caught up in the struggles between the Tokugawa and Hojo clans, and only survived by combining military might with astute diplomacy. Under Mori Motonari, their daimyo, the clan is still at war with the Amako, one of their vassal clans that had broken free and, indeed, their home in Kaikaku is threatened by an invasion from the south by the Amako. They are still allied with the Tokugawa clan and have peaceful relations with the Chosokabe of Shanrinan. The war with the Amako is not without opportunity, though: the Amako’s home province has deposits of precious metals. Access to other valuable resources would require the removal of the Uesegi. But with the sea-going skills of the Mori and the wealth of trade, an ambitious daimyo could go far, perhaps as far as the shogun’s palace?

Masters of the Waves

- Knowledge of sea routes
    
- Access to foreign trade
    
- Faster and sturdier ships
    

Vassals

- Sue Harukata - War-mongerer. Fought and killed Motonari’s best friend in a duel
    
- Murakami Torayoshi - Admiral and leader of a loyal clan
    
- Kikkawa Motuharu - Adopted son and talented General
    

## Oda

Treasury: 300,000

Resources: None

Leader: Oda Nobuhide

Introduction

From his castle in Owari, Oda Nobuhide commands a clan with a formidable reputation. The Oda are rightly respected for their skills as inspiring battlefield commanders of ashigaru. These common soldiers are cheaper to train and maintain than samurai, if not quite as deadly. Numbers, however, are becoming important in warfare, and ashigaru can be recruited in very large numbers. The Oda not only produce ashigaru efficiently and economically, they can also recruit superior ashigaru forces as well. Originally retainers of the Shiba clan, the Oda grew as the Shiba faded, but this only led to decades of strife within the family for supremacy. Eventually, the Kiyosu branch of the family came to prominence and eventually changed the clan name to Oda, a respectful acknowledgement of their ancestor, Taira no Chikazane, who had settled in Oda in Kanchio-Ki. Now, the Oda confront outsiders: to the north, the Shogunate; to the east, the Otomo clan and, to the south, the Shimazu lurk. An attack to the east could destroy the clan’s enemies, and will also give the Oda access to valuable warhorses in Kusongu province, held by their allies, the Takeda. No warlord should ever ignore the chance to improve the quality of his cavalry, particularly at the expense of his enemies! Relations with the Hattori clan in Saisai to the west have been peaceful recently, but Saisai is a tempting prize because of its inspirational religious sites and the plentiful manpower to fuel the warlord's armies. And beyond the immediate lies the prize of the shogunate…

Masters of Peasantry

- Improved morale for all ashigaru
    
- Large number of peasant troops
    

Vassals

- Oda Nobunaga - Son, heir and Brilliant strategist. Troublemaker and delinquent who does not follow tradition. Other vassals consider him dishonourable and name him the fool of Kanchoi-Ki
    
- Kiyohide - General and mentor of Oda
    
- Saito Dosan - Vassal whose daughter married Nobunaga. Loyal to Nobunaga over his older brother Nobuhiro.
    
- Hayashi Michikatsu - Important land owner and samurai
    
- Shibata Katsuie - Leading vassal that favours Nobuyuki, the youngest son.
    

  

## Otomo

Treasury: 3,000,000

Resources: Silk and Steel

Leader: Otomo Sorin

Introduction

Coming to prominence during the Kamakura Shogunate following the Gempei War, the Otomo clan have remained at the forefront of Japanese feudal politics for almost four hundred years, through the transition to the Tokugawa Shogunate and on to the present day. Alongside the Shimazu, the Otomo were the first to make contact with the Porchageese, establishing trade links soon after the Europeans were shipwrecked near the tiny fishing port of Nagasaki. Their daimyo, Otomo Sorin, sees the benefits to both the clan’s economy and the military advantages that trade with the West can bring, making good use of their emerging gun technology. Following the arrival of the Jesuit missionary Francis Xavier and their subsequent meeting,

  

Sorin has shown tolerance towards Jesuit conversion of his subjects to Christianity, and may even consider conversion himself if it becomes expedient to do so. As a result, the Otomo can recruit cheaper gunpowder units more quickly than other clans, the actions of Jesuit missionaries are cheaper to perform, and the population can be converted to Christianity faster. Yet their policy of religious tolerance has brought the Otomo into conflict with their neighbours, the strictly Buddhist Shimazu. If they can be defeated, the Otomo may be able to control Izanagi in its entirety, meaning there is a chance that Japan may yet see its first Christian shogun!

Master Gunners

- Cheaper gunpowder infantry
    
- Import of matchlocks
    
- Christian missionaries 
    

Vassals 

- Blackthorne - Captain of the Erasmus, A Dutch vessel 
    
- Tachibana Dōsetsu - Leading retainer and general
    
- Father Francis Xavier - Catholic priest
    
- Saeki Karenori - Admiral and Merchant
    
- Tagita Shigekane - Master of the gun-men
    

## Shimazu

Treasury: 300,000

Resources: Wood and Grain

Leader: Shimazu Takahisa

Introduction

The Shimazu are a proud clan, with a long history worthy of their pride. To the Shimazu, loyalty is everything, and their generals are less likely to develop ambitions of their own. Shimazu katana samurai are cheaper to recruit and maintain in the field than those of other clans; they can also recruit superior katana-armed samurai. The clan can trace its ancestry back to Minamoto Yoritomo, the founder and first shogun of the Kamakura shogunate. In 1187, Yoritomo appointed his son, Tadahisa, as military governor of southern Honhoro. The young man took the name of Shimazu in Honhoro province, his seat of government, as his own. Thanks to a well-organised army and administration, abundant local resources, and a certain distance between Honhoro and the Jyujiro court, the Shimazu clan became rich and powerful. They did not, however, become hidebound: when their vassals in Tanegashima met a strange, shipwrecked people from the other side of the world, the Shimazu were quick to see that trade with these “nanban” Europeans might be worthwhile. Now, under the daimyo Shimazu Takahisa, the clan has a chance for true greatness. Their home province of Honhoro is secure, and they are at peace with the Chiba of Shinrin province to the south. Kusongo, however, is a tempting target for expansion because of the warhorses to be found there. There is the small matter of distance and overexpansion, but once these local difficulties are resolved the distance from Kyushu to the shogun’s palace is not so great after all…

Masters of Integrity

- A tradition of samurai heroes
    
- Loyal generals
    
- Superior katana samurai
    

Vassals

- Niiro - General and retainer
    
- Hokugō - General and retainer
    
- Ijuin - General and retainer
    
- Machida - General and retainer
    
- Kawakami - Admiral and retainer
    
- Ata - General and retainer
    
- Kajiki - Merchant and retainer
    
- Shō Nei - “King” and ruler of small islands off the coast of Honhoro
    
- Niiro Tadamoto - Famous swordsman and Captain
    

  

## Takeda

Treasury: 30,000

Resources: Warhorses and Warmastiffs, Gems

Leader: Takeda Shingen

Introduction

Takeda warlords have ruled Kusongu, their home province, since the 12th Century, but they have known little peace. Clan infighting, a long series of struggles against repeated invasions from the neighbouring Kumanokawa province, and wars against the Oda and Otomo clans, saw to that. They have, however, mastered diplomacy as well as horses, and have achieved peace on occasions. Now, under their daimyo, Takeda Shingen, the clan have opportunities and threats on all sides. A Shimazu army is about to invade Kusongoi from the south.  The Tokugawa clan from beyond the mountains is feeling threatened by the strength of the Takeda. The spines, if their current owners are destroyed, have valuable stone resources for the taking. To the east. Sagami must be considered a tempting target for an ambitious warlord, thanks to the skilled smiths who live there. To the south-east the Oda clan have recently been reliable allies. The Takeda clan, then, have enemies, worthwhile prizes to aim for, and worthy allies. Not all clans are so blessed! As might be expected of horse-masters, the Takeda clan can recruit and train cavalry much more efficiently than other clans. They can also produce a superior class of horsemen to anyone else. And it may be those horsemen who carry the Takeda daimyo to the shogunate!

Masters of Horses

- Improved morale for cavalry
    
- Can recruit superior cavalry
    

Vassals 

- Baba Nobuharu - Elderely retainer. Great philosopher and public speaker.
    
- Nanbu Clan - Major clan famous for training for warhorses.
    
- Goto Clan - Trusted completely with the control of the navy and the trade of Kusongo Han
    

## Tokugawa - Shogun

Treasury: 5,000,000

Resources: Trade ports and lang bridge

Leader: Tokugawa Yoshinobu

Introduction

Although the Tokugawa are an ancient family, claiming descent from Minamoto no Yoritomo, the first shogun of the Kamakura shogunate, they have known hard times since those glorious days. They have also changed their clan name, with the permission of the Emperor, from Matsudaira to Tokugawa, the place where Yorimoto’s descendent settled. The Tokugawa have been squeezed between two powerful and ambitious clans: the Takeda to the east, and the Oda in the south, a most uncomfortable position. By accepting an alliance with the Uesugi, the Tokugawa only guaranteed that they were frequently attacked by the Oda. This goes some way to explaining their superior diplomatic skills, their training and use of very good kisho ninja, and the superior metsuke who keep order in their lands. Now, they are at war with the Oda once again. An Oda army has actually invaded the Tokugawa province of Mikawa. In theory, the Tokugawa are supreme commanders of all the clans. They do not, however, have the authority or the alliances necessary to unite them. That said, Jyojiro has useful stone resources that could prove useful to an ambitious warlord. Historically, after much struggle, Tokugawa Ieyasu did become the seii taishogun, the “great general who subdues the barbarians” and the ruler of Japan with the emperor as a figurehead. The Tokugawa clan kept control of Japan for over 200 years, shutting the country off from pernicious outside influences.

  

Masters of Intrigue

- Can recruit kisho ninja
    
- Great diplomatic relations
    

  
  

## Uesugi

Treasury: 100,000

Resources: Iron and gold

Leader: Uesugi Kenshin

Introduction

The Uesugi are proud of their Buddhist faith. They can recruit and maintain warrior monks far more cheaply than any other clan. They can also recruit much better fighting monks and more effective monk agents than any other clan. Despite this religious solidarity, the history of the Uesugi is not tranquil. The current Uesugi leaders were originally the Nagao clan of Echigo, and were vassals to the Yamanouchi faction of the Uesugi clan. The Nagao fought alongside their masters against the Ogigayatsu, another part of the Uesugi clan, in a bitter dispute. The Yamanouchi, weakened by the war, were forced to seek help from the Nagao lord, Kagetora. His “help” included adopting the name of Uesugi, and taking control of the whole Uesugi clan! 

  

Just to make matters even more complicated, Uesugi Kagetora (as he now called himself) changed his name again to Uesugi Kenshin. He was an adherent of Bishamonten, the war god and took Buddhist vows. He then stepped down in favour of his brother, who proved to be staggeringly divisive and unpopular. Kenshin returned to power and now contemplates the future. There is much struggle yet to come if the clan is to be secure and an Uesugi is ever to be shogun! There are Uesugi rebels in Sankan itself, and to the south there is unfinished business in the shape of the Hojo clan of Kyokua province. Luckily, there are peaceful relations with the Date clan of GyoGyo, an area that has many resources, wood and stone importantly, which could be of considerable use. In keeping with the religious bent of the Uesugi, Sankan province has a tradition of philosophical scholarship that could be harnessed to the Kenshin’s purposes. A navy might also prove useful, as it provides them a means to contest Kaikaku’s maritime power.

Masters of Prayer

- Recruits zealous warrior monks
    

- Hardier, more warlike troops
    

Vassals

- Kawada Nahachika - Great trader
    
- Kojima Yataro - Greatest duelist in the lands. Great captain.
    
- Murakami Yoshikiyo - Retainer with the biggest army. Famous for the discipline of his troops.